TITLE: Unit 1: Foundation – Your First Agent Call
LENGTH: 17757

Welcome, everyone. Let's go through our first code walkthrough unit. For all of the units, we are going to try to use the same template. We're going to create our resources using bicep files, using Azure CLI, using VS Code to run our Python, and we'll be using debug mode. We're going to use this for all of these units, and then with every unit, you will get all of these files downloadable, so that way you can repeat everything that has been done. So without further ado, let's get started. As you can see, we are starting by looking at this readme.md file. These are just some quick steps to get you set up. You're going to want to create a new environment, whether that is a virtual environment or condo environment. Here are some steps that I've done to create my first virtual environment. And then what I'm going to do is I need to activate virtual environment. Let me do that now. Now I have my virtual environment activated. The next step is you're going to want to install all of the dependencies. Now I've already gone ahead and frozen all of the dependencies, which means I've got all of the packages that have been installed and their version numbers, so that way you can fully reproduce what I'm doing. Once you have done that, if you're using VS Code, you're going to want to ensure that your debugger is using this environment. So in VS Code, you can create a launch.json file. In this launch.json file, you can then specify the file that you want to execute, as such as I'm highlighting now, which will be the AIPythonUnit1.py file. And then you need to specify the actual environment or the virtual environment you'll be using. In this case, I have defined it here. We're also going to, for this unit, be putting in some hard-coded environment variables. In future units, we'll look at using Azure Key Vault to remove this hard coding. So taking it back, we have now got a readme file that talks about creating new environments, installing the required packages for this project, ensuring that our debugger in VS Code is ready to run our Python executable path. And now you have to do the last steps. You need to ensure that you have the Azure CLI files installed on your computer. If you don't, please go to this link and then install it and restart VS Code. Once you've done that, you will be ready to run CLI commands. The first one you're going to need to run is azlogin. azlogin is going to then come up with a window that will allow you to put in your email and your password to log in to Azure. I've already done that. And for security reasons, I'm not going to do that in front of you. Now that we've got everything set up, let's now get into actually running this project. So now we're going to open our shell script. So our shell script is going to contain a series of Azure CLI commands. We're going to use these to interact with Azure directly, instead of going to the portal. In later units, we will show you how to use the portal. But for now, we're going to do everything via infrastructure code. Now, the reason we want to use infrastructure code is that this makes everything repeatable and consistent between all of the users, and it's best practice for industry. So you might as well start using infrastructure as code from the very beginning, so that you are learning the best practices. To start with, you're going to need to want to create your resource group. So in this case, I will be creating my resource group in my area of Australia. And I'm going to give it a particular name. From here, I can just go into my terminal, run this command. This command will execute successfully because we've installed Azure CLI to the computer, and because we've logged in via AZ login. As you can see, we've got a JSON output, which means we've successfully created our resource group. Let's now have a look at the Azure portal just to confirm we have this resource As you can see, we are now on the Azure Microsoft portal. If I go now into my resource groups tab, you should see our resource created. We did this all via code. If I open it, there should be nothing. This is currently running, and I'm going to go back to my Azure portal and run this command again. If I open it, there should be nothing. This is currently an empty resource. So let's go ahead now, back to VS Code, and create our resources. Okay. So the next stage is we're going to deploy all of our resources via our bicep file. Now, before we do that, let's explain what's going to be deployed via this bicep file. Here, we are going to be referencing the resource group we want all our resources to be deployed into, and we will be referencing the file itself. Furthermore, I've created a custom parameter that allows us to label all of the resources with a prefix of unit one course. Let's have a look at this bicep file. Well, first of all, I think it's very important to recognize that I got this bicep file from the Azure documentation. Here is a link where GitHub, Microsoft Foundry, and then there are samples of infrastructure code given by Microsoft. And in this case, we're looking at a very basic example of creating our Microsoft Foundry resources or via bicep. This is going to be really important because Microsoft are constantly changing bicep or the resources that bicep deploys. So by going to the official Microsoft documentation, you can ensure that your bicep files will always work correctly. Now, here are some of the prefix for our bicep. We're going to have my course as a default value, but we're actually overriding that, go back to the shell script with unit one course. Then from there, it'll use that to create some other parameters or variables for us, such as the name of the Foundry resource, the name of our Foundry project, and the resource group location. We will go into more detail throughout this bicep file. So the first resource that you need to create is your AI Foundry resource. You can actually call it, funny enough, by the Microsoft.cognitive services account. And then you use the kind AI services to ensure that it's a Foundry resource. Importantly, we will be using the system assigned managed identity, because furthermore, yes, you can hard code a lot of things, but we want to ensure that we're using some of the best practices throughout all of these courses, so that you don't start by using the least best practices, and so you just start with the best practices and you continue to use them. Importantly, we have ensured that the SKU will be the standard tier. This is the lowest tier for Microsoft Foundry. And this is going to mean we're going to minimize our costs. We will talk about costs a little bit later. There are some extra parameters that Microsoft says are required to be configured. Now that you have your Foundry, it will also create your Foundry hub, but it will not create your Foundry project. So here you actually have to manually deploy a Foundry project after Foundry resource and hub has been created. Thankfully, the way Bicep works is it's sequential. It'll only build this resource once the other resource has been completed. Here you'll see that we are again producing an AI project, and we're going to make sure the parent is the Foundry resource we created earlier, so that the project is linked to the right Foundry account. Furthermore, we can also assume the use of managed identities. But at this point, we still can't use or run a script that runs an LLM. We actually need a model to do this with. So here we have a final step to our Bicep file, where we take the Foundry project and we deploy a model. In this case, we are going to deploy the GPT 4.1 mini resource. This is a really important model for a couple reasons. First of all, it's a small model, which means it's not going to cost you very much. And I've tried to ensure that throughout this Bicep script, your costs will be minimized. My current estimations are that the usage of this model and the deployment of the resources will cost you less than a cent. Now, furthermore, you need to ensure you get this name fully correct. I will show you later how to get more models and get your name correct. But if you make a mistake here, you will not be able to deploy the model. You also need to correctly match its other properties, the format and the version. Again, I will show you how to pick different models later. Finally, you give it a name. This is a name of your choice. You can call this anything you want, as long as you remember it, because you will reference this name later. Now that we've set this up, we're now going to be via Bicep, putting in our course name, getting our resource group, creating our AI Foundry resource and hub, creating our project, deploying the GPT 4.1 mini model to our Foundry resource. Finally, we're going to output some of the core environment variables that we are going to need for this script. If you don't create these outputs from your Bicep script, you will be required to go to the portal directly, open up AI Foundry, and get all these properties manually via the portal. This can often be a great idea, because sometimes bugs can occur, and it may be better just going directly there. But if you want to fully automate the system, this is how you will do it. Now that you understand the Bicep file, let's execute it. We are now going to copy and paste this CLI command and create our resources, all with one press of a button. Now what it's going to do is it's first going to verify the accuracy of your Bicep file. It will then say accepted if there are no mistakes found. As you can see, it now says accepted. And in a few moments, it will start to say it is running. And when it is running, it is creating all of your resources. Unfortunately, this can take some time, from a few minutes to maybe up to 10 minutes. So I'm going to pause this recording and come back when our resources are deployed. Okay. We're back. As you can see now, we've got a JSON output from running that CLI command, which should indicate that our Bicep file was successful and all those resources are deployed. Let's now actually look at the portal just to confirm this. So now you can see that we are back in the portal. So now let's go into our resources tab. So the resources groups tab on the far left, that is now going to show us our resources group. And what we should see is all of our resources deployed within it. Great. We can now see our Foundry resource and our Foundry project resource, and they should be linked together. Let's now open them and just have a look inside very briefly. This isn't actually needed for the rest of this unit, but it's just nice to look at this for the very first time. You click on the resource and you can then go to the Foundry portal. Now you'll see that this has been a successful deployment because it's opened up. We have our project name on the right, and we also will have within here our deployed model. If anything goes wrong in the process of calling your project, your deployed resources, use the OpenAI endpoint that is linked here. This will be the same endpoint that we should have an output from our bicep file. Now, I just also want to verify the model deployment. So I'm going to go build. Then I'm going to go deployments. And then you will see it. You will now see the GPT 4.1 mini model successfully deployed. Great. Now we have everything we need to continue with this unit. So now that we're back at the VS Code, let's now get our deployment outputs. So our deployment outputs, you can run this line, and you will get a JSON response containing your AI outputs. Now, in this case, these are going to be our environment variables. We are going to copy them into our launch.json file, and then they will become environment variables that our Python script can read. In future units, we won't rely In future units, we won't rely on this hard coding. We'll use much more secure methods, such as using Azure Key Vault. For this unit, we're just going to copy and paste them. We're going to put in the deployment name of our model. And we're going to put in the endpoint URL. As I mentioned earlier, the endpoint URL can often, an incorrect endpoint URL is a very common cause of what is the 404 no resource error. So if you do need to change this to solve that problem, just go back into the Foundry portal. Now that we've deployed everything, we should be ready to run our Python script. One more statement. So far, we should have incurred no costs. Yes, we've been running commands in Microsoft. And yes, Microsoft has done the work to deploy all these resources. But thankfully, Microsoft does not cost us. Microsoft is only going to be costing you based on the running of that model. So now we're going to be running a Python script, and we will be incurring a small charge. Thankfully, this charge is orders of magnitude less than a cent. That's primarily because we've picked the mini GPT model. If we picked a larger model, it would be significantly more expensive. So let's now look at this script. This script is going to be the very first script to demonstrate how to call an Azure OpenAI model. We're also going to be using the OpenAI SDK, and we're going to be using Azure Identity for authentication. This is really important because by using the Azure Identity, we can obtain a bearer token. And the bearer token is significantly more secure than a static API key. In this script, we are going to be sending a system message, and we're going to send a user message. Finally, we're going to get the response from our agent, and we're going to retrieve that response and look at it. So let's get started. First, we're going to load in our packages, the OpenAI package and the Azure Identity package. Then we are going to get our environment variables. Here, os.getEnvironment is going to call those two environment files that we put in our launch.json file. Now let's authenticate. What we are going to do is we are going to get a bearer token. This URL will always stay fixed, or at least will be for a long time. And then we're going to authenticate by using the default Azure credentials. Now, because we've already used azlogin earlier, then this is what it is going to call those credentials we configured with earlier. This will give us a token or a token provider, and we can use that to call the OpenAI client model. By using the OpenAI endpoint and the token, we will get our client, and we'll be able to use our client to communicate with any deployed models within Microsoft Foundry. It's essentially the gateway to Microsoft Foundry. Then we're going to start pairing the actual script to communicate with our deployed model. We will define the system message. We will define the user message, where the user message is the main prompt that you're used to using. And then we're going to put both of those together into the messages variable list. Finally, we're going to then execute those messages by sending them to the model and getting a response. I've put a debug statement in here so we can stop just before here. Let's now run our script. Great, we've had a successful execution, which means we've successfully connected to our client. Let's have a quick look. Let's look at the token provider by the debug. Here's our debug provider, I mean our token provider. Let's look at our client. We can see the client object has been successfully created. Let's double check the messages are looking correct. Great, you can see that. Now, let's have a look at the deployment name. Remember, this deployment name does not need to be identical to the model name. You can name this whatever you like. And we defined that in the bicep file that I'm looking at now, where we said this is the model we want, and this is the name. It is this name that we are referencing. Now, if all goes well, we should be able to send our messages to the model. Okay, it is running. We have now just incurred a very, very small cost. Let's now check the response. Perfect. We have now successfully sent our message to GPT 4.1 mini, and we've got a response. Let's now learn how to actually analyze that response. Well, you can do this by running this command. This is another line of code that you probably need to memorize for the exam. Let's look at the assistant reply. The response of the model was an AI agent is a software entity that perceives its environment through sensors and acts upon its actuators to achieve specific goals. Perfect. We have now shown that we can send a message to a GPT 4.1 mini model and receive a response. That should be everything for this unit. However, I was actually mistaken. There's a little bit more. We also want to be calculating the tokens because I want to ensure that we have not accidentally sent too many tokens. Let's have a look. Well, in total, let's look at the total tokens. We can see here that we used 55 tokens. I can guarantee that 55 tokens is a fraction of a cent. So, we've incurred a very, very small cost. Perfect. We've now shown that we can demonstrate the usage of a viable agent. We showed how to configure environment variables. We showed how to authenticate using Azure Identity. We defined a system message. We defined a user message. We sent the model, sent the message to the model, and we got a response and we extracted its reply. Perfect. This has now been an end-to-end demonstration of how to go all the way from creating a virtual environment, securely logging in via AZ login. We've learned then how to deploy a resource group, deploy all of our resources via a bicep file, and then we learned how to execute a Python script and using the code that is exactly needed to communicate with our deployed model. That is the end for Unit 1.