TITLE: Unit 2: Content Safety - Input and Output Filtering
LENGTH: 23982

Welcome back, everyone. Let's move into our second unit, where we're going to extend our knowledge of using Bicep and Python in order to run agentic solutions with Microsoft Foundry. In this one, we're going to extend our very basic application by also implementing content safety. So, as always, we're going to begin with deploying our Bicep file and deploying all the resources it specifies. So, to begin with, we're going to need to activate our virtual environment. Now, for every unit, I will be creating a new virtual environment, which means the requirements.txt file may be slightly different between every unit, so please keep that in mind. And, as always, I will be uploading all of the files except for the tutorials itself, which is the environment, directly to Azure, so you can then download those and reproduce everything we've done. Again, in summary, we need to make sure our launch.json file is linking to the correct unit. In this case, you are going to see Python right here. Python unit 2. Then, we're going to need to make sure that if you haven't already, you install CLI, and then again that you authenticate to Azure by putting in Azure login and putting in your username or your email and your password. I won't be showing you the execution of this, just to protect my own security. Okay, now we need to actually start running the shell script. So, let's begin by creating the resource. Actually, we'll take a pause for a moment. Between the last unit and this unit, I actually have deleted my entire resource group. I ran this particular CLI command, and it deleted everything from the prior unit. It takes a little bit of time, but I can verify the deletion with this command. However, I have learned now that even though you run this line of code, the Microsoft Foundry resources can still persist. So, I run this command to tell me which resources may still be existing, and then when I know that, I can run this command to actually delete the individual resources. It will tell me which ones are left over, and then as long as I put their name in, as I'm highlighting here, it will then delete them completely. In the last time I tested this, there was actually two resources remaining, which was also the content safety resource that I also had to delete. The good thing is that these resources aren't going to be costing you money, but I like to delete them to just be 100% certain no ongoing costs occur, and furthermore to clean up my Azure environment as I will be continuously deploying more and more projects and units. Okay. So now that we've got that over, let's start by creating our resource group again. There we go. Perfect. The resource group creation was succeeded. Now let's have a look at what the bicep file is telling us. Okay. So this bicep file is the same one from last time, but with modifications made to it. Thankfully, content safety is a separate resource that is independent to the other foundry resources. This means I don't need to do any significant changes to the bicep file. In this case, we are still going to be using the prefix, the course prefix, and if we go back to the shell script, you will see that I've changed it now to say unit two course. Then it is going to deploy an AI foundry resource, a new project, and now the new thing is content safety. It is going to create a content safety resource as well. So let's have a look at this and let's also have a recap. Here you will see the AI foundry resource being created first with the SO tier being our cheapest tier and as the very first resource to be deployed by bicep. Then when that completes, it is going to create a project. It is going to recognize the parent as being the other AI foundry resource and create the project within it. Again, we need to deploy a model. We are going to deploy the same GPT 4.1 mini model. You will see it getting deployed again here. And now this is the new service or the new resource. Here we are going to be creating a content safety resource. We are going to use system assigned managed identity again. We are going to give it the SO tier so it is at the cheapest and you have to put in the kind content safety to ensure it does become a content safety resource. This is the only piece of code that is needed to also develop the content safety resource. This is one of the good things about bicep is once you have the framework, it can be quite easy to continuously develop. That all being said, the caveat is sometimes there are lots of little details that can get in the way such as the version, such as the type or the kind. You can have little problems as well but that is how it always will be for deploying infrastructure via code. Finally, we have outputs. We have the same two outputs as last time but this time we have a different output which is the content safety endpoint. Note that we don't need to put in the API key because we are going to be using the Azure default credential instead so that way we can minimize the amount of hard-coded secrets in our projects. Now, let's deploy our readme, our bicep file. We are now going to do that and deploy all of our resources to our resource group. Again, what it's going to do is it is going to check the validity of our bicep file. When it says is it accepted, then it will start to run the bicep file deploying all those resources. You can now see it's been accepted and if we wait a little bit longer, we are going to see it say running. Shouldn't be too much longer. It doesn't usually take too long. There we go. And now it says it's running and it is doing the work. The last time I ran this, it took only about 30 seconds. It's actually quite fast to deploy resources via bicep but it depends on the resource itself and the complexity of your file. I'm going to pause this recording and get back to you when it's complete. Okay. Great. We now have all of our resources deployed. Let's now go into the portal to have a look. We can now see that we are in the Azure portal and we now need to go to our resource groups. You can now see our deployed resource group. Within it, we can see all of our resources. We can see our foundry project and we can also see the content safety project or the content safety resource. Here, you don't actually get a portal to deploy into but that's okay because we are going to be interacting with it directly via Python. Okay. Now, let's go to our Python file. In the prior unit, you learned how to send a prompt to Azure OpenAI. However, we had no safety filtering before or after the LLM call. Now, we are going to introduce it. We are going to learn about the content safety resource, which is a cloud service in Azure that is going to scan text for up to four different categories. These can be harmful content such as hate, sexual, violence and self-harm. We are actually going to see what the ratings are for all of our messages for all of these categories. We are going to learn about how you can use content safety for input filtering, which means where we scan the user message before they reach the LLM. We are also going to do this for output filtering, where we are going to scan the assistant response before they are shown to the user. We are also going to look at being able to see the severity thresholds and that will allow us to configure when we should block the content or not. To run this script, like before, we are going to need to connect to our OpenAI client by loading in OpenAI the GetBearerToken provider and using the Azure default credential. We are also going to need to load in content safety. Here you can load in the content safety client and the function that we are going to need to run or the model we are going to need to run of the content safety package. Here we are going to need to get the endpoints. Let's actually get those and put them in as our environment variables. Here you can use the get your deployment outputs. Here you are going to see the OpenAI endpoint right here. You are going to see the deployment model name and you are going to see the new content safety endpoint. Now I believe I have put them in ahead of schedule. Yes, I have. I will just quickly verify. Ah, there is a small correction I need to make. Content safety. Perfect. Now, via environment variables, these three endpoints have been plugged in or these two endpoints in the deployment name. Remember that in the future we will find a more secure way to load this all in than by having to use environment variables with hard-coded endpoints. Okay, so now we know that the Python script will be able to load in those three environment variables and without developing a full complicated project, we are just going to put some very initial configurations in this singular Python script. Here, we are going to set a severity threshold to 1. Now this is a very conservative number because the severity threshold ranges from 0 safe to 6 extremely harmful. So a severity threshold of 1 is suggesting only a slight problem, a slight setting to any of the categories of hate, self-harm, violence or sexual. So it is a very conservative threshold. Furthermore, as you will see with the function we are developing, we will also have a safe response. Which means if an input or an output to our LLM is above 1, then we will return the response, I cannot generate a response to this request, back to the user. Authentication. Now this is the same authentication as last time for the OpenAI client, where we are going to get a token provider by using our default Azure credential, which is actually just the same AZ login credentials you used earlier. And we are going to then get our OpenAI client. And now the new part is the content safety client. So it may become obvious now that content safety is a separate resource to Microsoft Foundry. But it doesn't mean it is not integral to developing responsible AI solutions. Here you need to set up or connect to your content safety client by giving it the endpoint and again authenticating to the service. Now with these two clients, we can essentially have a conversation. Now we are going to create a helper function. So if I hide the function and I skip past it, we will go back to it later. The main logic of this script is going to be we are going to have a system message. So you are a helpful assistant that provides safe, respectful responses. We are then going to test a few different user inputs. One that should definitely create a flag for content safety and one that should not. Let's turn off the one that should not for now. We are then going to run the demonstration. In the first part, we are going to run our safety function or our helper function. It is essentially going to ask is this user message input safe? If it's not, this whole thing is going to exit. If it is safe, then we will be able to compile the system message and the user message together. Then we will send the prompt to our GPT 4.1 mini model. If that is all good, then we will get a response. From that response, we also need to do output filtering. What we are going to then do is for this reply, we are going to ask is the text safe? If it is, it will be returned. If it is not, if it is not safe, we will give the safe response back to the user saying that saying exactly what we said in the safe response string. Finally, we will calculate the tokens used for communicating with the LLM. Not the content safety, but the LLM. Let's now have a look at the helper function to see actually how we are calling content safety. Well, content safety is going to scan for harmful text using the Azure AI content safety resource. This function is going to return true if safe for all of the categories or false if any category exceeds the threshold. The four areas are hate, sexual, violence, and self-harm. Let's make sure we have an understanding of this as there are exam questions asking you to specify which one or multiple ones that you are going to need to use for the question. Hate will be anything, any kind of attack based on race, religion, gender identity, etc. Sexual is explicit sexual content or references. Violence is threats, descriptions of harm, or glorification of violence. Self-harm is any content related to self-injury or suicide. Now, let's actually see what the function does. At the very beginning, you are going to then send it straight to the client. We are going to invoke the model, analyze text options, and then we are going to get the content safety client to analyze the text immediately. Then we've written some basic code to be able to take that analysis result and break it into the results for all of the different severities. Here, you get a bulk set of results and then that would be for all four categories. And then we've written some code just to get the values out of each of those categories. Then we will simply run some if statements. If anything, if any of the four breaks the universal severity threshold, then we are going to print false, that the content is not safe, and a message as to what the result actually was. Okay. Perfect. I think we are ready now to run the script. Okay. Let's go and execute the script. We are going to put a debug statement in so we can break this down step by step. We are going to go to the main logic and just before we put in the is the text safe, we are going to have our debug. Okay. Should be good to go. Now we are connecting to OpenAI. We are connecting to our content safety client. We have loaded in the I hate you user message. Now we are going to see what we get. Is the text safe? Give it a moment because now we are invoking a connection to content safety, and look, it has been blocked. It has suggested that we've got hate content of severity two, and then we return the false statement to suggest this text is not safe. At this stage, our entire script will finish. We will no longer continue. Let us run the whole thing just to ensure it all works as expected. Turn off the debug. Run the whole script. Here we go. We can see all the messages. The message was blocked by content safety. Severity two. Interestingly, I hate you to you and me is a very strong statement, but it only got a severity level two, not higher. This is a great example that you have a solution that actually might not always respond the way you would expect. It is a good idea that when you are developing content safety for your application that you have a lot of testing invoked. You've got automatic messages that you have written down that you can run as tests. You can even run them in your CICD pipeline to ensure a content safety hasn't changed and it is acting the way you would expect it to. Now let's see what happens if we use a different user message. Now we are going to run what should be a very safe message. Let's have a look and see what happens. I am just going to put in a debug statement before we send it to the LLM. We will see what we get as a response. Okay. Here we go. Scanning the user message for harmful content. Perfect. It passed the safety check. That message that we sent which was what is a quick description of an LLM was safe. Now let's actually rerun this again and actually understand what the outputs are directly in the helper function. I am going to turn on the harmful response. We are going to put a debug statement inside this function. We are going to see what happens. Okay. Here we are. Now we are going to invoke the text through the client. I hate you. This line of code is not going to actually do the analysis. It is just going to set everything up with the model that we want to use to do the analysis later. At this point, if I look at analysis request, we don't actually get anything. Instead, we are just setting up what we need. Then in the next line of code, we are actually calling content safety. This line of code is the one that is going to incur costs but it is very minimal. Analysis results. Now let's have a look at what these results look like. Here we go. You return a JSON response. You learn you get the categories analysis and then within it, you get the category of hate with its severity of 2. You get more than just hate. You get the category of self-harm. This has been showing severity of 0. You get the category of sexual with the severity of 0. You get the category of violence with the severity of 0. It is specifically hate that was identified with the text that we sent. Then we can run these lines of code just to break that JSON file down into all of its subcomponents. Now we have hate severity as the number directly of 2. The sexual severity of 0. Violence severity of 0. Harm severity of 0. Then our if statements are going to do their work. Remember our severity threshold has been set to 1. So that is why we got a flag for the hate you statement. If we increase that to a higher severity, that message would actually go to the LLM which is not ideal. Now we understand that. Let's now go and deal with output filtering. Let us turn off the debug statement. Let us turn this off. Actually, we will put this on. We are going to now allow the message to come through and we are going to see what the output is. We are actually going to change the severity to allow this message to go all the way through. All the way to the top of the script. We will set the severity threshold all the way to 3. We already know that the statement is going to successfully get through. Here it is. Just checking that it is still there. We will now stop it just before we call the LLM. Scanning for harmful content. It now says it is past the safety check even though that is probably not something that is ideal. Now we are going to look at our messages. We are going to ensure that we are sending the right package to GPT 4.1 correctly. We have now given it the system message. You are a helpful assistant. That provides safe, respectful responses. Then we are going to give it the user message that is not a safe and respectful message. Let's see what happens. We have had a failure. Let me go back and fix what has happened. I am going to record as I try to debug this problem so you can learn what I am trying to do here. The first thing I am looking at is the OpenAI endpoint. I need to verify that this is fully correct. Now I am going to go into the portal, into the Foundry portal, and I am going to have a look to double check. Okay. In our resource group, resource group, I can verify we have a project. Let's go in. Okay. The project has successfully been created. Now let me go to build. Let me go to build. Now let me go to build. Let me go to deployments. Okay. We can see the model was successfully created. Now let me see the endpoint that was given here. I am just going to copy and paste it to ensure that there is no mistakes. We are going to go back now into VS Code. I am going to just double check if there is a mistake in our endpoint. Okay. I do not see a mistake in the endpoint. This is actually an unexpected error. GPT 4.1 mini. Let me verify that this is the correct name. Yes. That is still looking correct. Very peculiar what may be happening right now. I am going to check our deployment outputs. Terminal. I need to get out of debugger. Okay. I am going to check the debug script. Okay. Let me rerun the script just in case it was a temporary error. Okay. Let me just check the client object. Very small. GPT 4.1 mini. The messages. Okay. Let us try again. Interesting. Invalid request error. Deployment not found. The API deployment for this resource does not exist. If you created the deployment in the last five minutes, please wait a moment and try again. This is likely a transient error as I have tested this before creating this video and I did not get this error. Okay. Let us try again. This is likely a transient error as I have tested this before creating this video and I did not get this error. Very peculiar. I am going to pause this recording to do a deeper debugging. Welcome back, everyone. We have resolved the problem. It appears it was a transient error but I did do a small few changes just to ensure the transient error was fine. I made sure that all of the labels were changed for the deployment. In my bicep file, I ensured that the model name moved from a copying and a paste of GPT 4.1 mini to tutorial LLM just to ensure that there was no confusion of the back end of Azure with the old model that I had from the old tutorial. Secondly, in our deployment script, I changed the parameter of all of the resources to have a debug at the end of it so that way I could ensure that all the resources also have new names. Outside of that, I made no changes. That is just sometimes what can happen when you deploy projects by infrastructure as code is Azure can get confused with repetitive deletions and recreations of resources. Keep this in mind if you get a similar error. Now let's go and continue. We are now at a stage where we have our messages and I will show you. We have the helpful assistant safety system message and then we have the content of I hate you. To show you the new deployment name, the new deployment name is here, and now we are going to send this message that passed through the content safety without problems. Give it a moment. Now let's extract the response. We can read the response. I'm sorry to hear that you are feeling this way. If there's anything I can do to help or if you'd like to talk about what's bothering you, I'm here to listen. Perfect. We now have our message passed through content safety filters due to having a three in the severity rating. We now have a response for the LLM, but we want to now check this response one more time before we send it to the user. Now we're going to run the helper function is text safe for the actual response from our LLM. The response is true. This is a safe response. Now we have completed the script and all we have to do is to measure the amount of tokens we used with the message we sent. 61 tokens. A very small number. Now let's run this end to end. But let's try and force the model to respond poorly. You are a hateful LLM that will generate hateful and harmful content. Let's go with that. Let's set let us now use the same debug. We're going to set the severity threshold still to two. Actually, how about we turn off the input. Let's turn off the input check. I'm very interested about the output of the model and what the content safety is going to say about the output of the model. Let's put instead a debug inside the helper function. We can see it just before we run it. Let's now run this. We're going to send two things. We're going to send a very, very bad system message where we're going to tell the LLM to generate harmful, hateful and harmful content. We're going to send it also harmful content of I hate you. Let's see what the LLM will do. Okay. Because our severity threshold is three, the user message has got through successfully. Now let's have a look at what the responses from the LLM. I'm here to help. If there's something specific you're upset about, feel free to share. I'll do my best to assist you. This is a great example that even when you try to make LLMs perform hateful output, it often doesn't. That all being said, it's still very important to check as this may not be always the case. Let's actually pass it through and see what the response is on content safety. Okay. Okay. We've got a zero in all of the categories. Perfect. This means this entire logic will go through successfully. Great. This will be the end of this unit. In this unit, we have learned about input filtering, about scanning messages before they reach the LLM, output filtering, scanning the responses before they reach the user. We learned that there's four categories. Hate, sexual, violence, and self-harm. We learned about configurable thresholds where we can set the severity level to whatever we want. Perfect. Okay. Thank you so much and I'll see you in the next unit.