TITLE: Unit 5: LLM Model Parameters (Temperature, etc.)
LENGTH: 24902

Good morning, everyone. Let's go into our next code walkthrough unit. In this unit, we're going to go into different model parameters. So as always, let's start by setting up our resource group, deploying our resources, etc. So, actually we need to first load our environment. I have already installed all of the required packages. So I'm just going to activate my environment. I've already gone ahead and secured myself its login to Azure. So now, let's go to our shell script. Let's create our resource group. Now, if it's not clear, after every unit, I always run this particular command, which is delete the entire deployment. And it goes ahead and deletes all the resources in my resource group. And I use this line of code just to verify. It often just tells me deleting, which is great because then it confirms this command run. And then when it finally is finished, it returns nothing. However, I've also learned that some of the services don't actually fully delete, which is a little frustrating, even though we just deleted the entire deployment. I use this line of code to tell me which have not been fully deleted. And it will often give me these two services, which will be the initial foundry resource and the content safety resource. And then I have to run these two commands independently to also fully delete them. Note that when they are in this soft state, there are no costs. In fact, there are no costs unless you run the API itself. But I like to fully delete all of my resources because I don't have compiling lists of resources from prior units. If you run this one command, you will find all of the cognitive services that have not been deleted for this unit and for prior units. So if you haven't done it, that's okay. You would have incurred no costs, and you can run this one command to get them all for you. Okay. Let's now create our resource group. Okay. Now let's go through our Bicep file. Actually, let me deploy the Bicep file and then talk about it while it's deploying. I'm just going to wait until it's accepted. It's almost there. Started, accepted, perfect. Okay. So we should be using the same Bicep file as our last unit. We are going to still be producing a large language model and a small language model. We're still going to be producing a content safety resource. We are still producing the same Foundry resource, the same project attached to the Foundry resource, the large language model, which will be GPT 4.1 Mini. And because of the transient error that 5.4 Mini Instruct is not working, and this is, I Googled this later, this is a known problem that will eventually resolve itself. I have to temporarily pause this one, and instead I deploy GPT 4.0 Mini, which is technically a large language model, but it's the smallest large language model that I can get available. Ah, we had a failure. I'm a little bit confused because I have run this before. This run resource deployment operation failed. As I mentioned, I have already run this script before, so we might be dealing with a transient error. How unexpected. Here you go, this is the fun of Bicep. Sometimes you can write nothing wrong, you can still have problems. So let me go ahead and look at the portal. Let's understand this because you will likely face similar problems. Okay, one moment, let us switch over. Okay. Let's go to our resource group. Our resource group. Okay, so we have, we have our three main resources deployed. So let's now, maybe it's a model deployment that failed. Okay. Ah, actually no, this is an entire course deployment failure. Okay. I'm going to show you, ironically, how we can delete all of this and start again. So let me swap over. Let's show you the deletion. Just to ensure nothing goes wrong, we are going to go to our shell script. We are going to delete the entire deployment. Okay, and delete. Okay, now it instantly responds, but you can verify the deletion is happening with this command, and it says deleting. We will have to wait a little bit for it to delete all the resources. Now, I am pretty certain that nothing has changed from the last version. So it is unexpected, and it failed on the actual project deployment itself, which is, which has never failed before. So it's either a transient problem with Azure, and it will hopefully resolve itself next time we execute it. Or it's because there is some update happened with Azure, and all of us are going to need to update our Bicep files. Now, one more piece of advice and wisdom that I've learned is you actually need to make sure that you change the name of your resources when you redeploy them, just in case. So I'm going to go to my course prefix, and I'm going to put in debug. I've now changed the course prefix, and that means everything, because of the parameters up here, using the course prefix or the boundary name, the course prefix or the project name, using the course prefix for the model deployment, course prefix for content safety, everything should be a new name, newly named resource. So this way we can ensure that we have no double up from a prior unit. It has resolved some previous bugs. Now I'm going to check how the deletion is going. It's still deleting. Okay, we have to wait. Shouldn't be too much longer now. I will just check again. There we go. As I said, it has now deleted everything, but I will be pretty sure some resources still exist. Yes, okay. As you can see, we still have these two resources existing, so we're going to have to manually delete them. Now this actually takes a little bit of time. You will see in a moment a deleting pop-up. Give it a second. It will pop up. A little slower than I expected. Let me just press enter. No. Oh, there we go. We're getting a response now. Deleting. Perfect. Okay. Now I'm going to check again. It's still deleting. Okay. As I said, we still have these two resources existing, deleting. Perfect. I'm going to pause this recording because this can take a little bit of time again, and I'll get back to you when all of the resources are deleted, and then we're going to redeploy them. Okay. The resources are deleted. Let's now redeploy our Bicep file with the new prefix. We're going to go deploy our Bicep file. Actually, the resource group needs to be recreated. We're now deploying our Bicep file. Okay. While I'm here, let's go into the beginning of our Python script to understand what we are doing today. So unit five, we are going to be exploring model parameters. Parameters like max pass messages, max tokens, temperature, and top P. In the prior unit, we learned about routing between small language models and large language models, and given that this is such a valuable step in the sense that it ensures that we minimize our costs, I'm going to try and use small language models and large language models as much as I can through the next set of units before our code becomes too big. We are going to experiment with and demonstrate the effects of these different parameters. So for max pass messages, to explain it, it controls how much conversation history is sent to the models. This is really important because actually none of our models currently have history. They're all at what you would call stateless. So they do not remember all the previous messages. You have to resend it. Ah, perfect. We've now had a successful deployment of the Bicep. As you can tell, that means that our prior Bicep file had no bugs in it. It does not have anything wrong with how we've put it together. It just so happens that there was a transient error, whether that was a temporary error or it was because we changed the prefix name. I can't be certain, but we've now fixed the problem. Now, before we go back to the Python script, let's get our deployment outputs. Okay. Let's go to our JSON file. Let's put in our deployments. Small language model. This is our OpenAI endpoint. Large language model. Okay. That should be all of our environment variables loaded in. Let's go back to the Python script. So, yes, models are stateless, and we are going to need to have to manually send history every time we run a call. But then, because we're doing it manually, we have full control, then, of the history. So you can use the parameter maxPastMessages to truncate that conversation history. You will see that. There's also maxTokens. maxTokens is that you can actually restrict your model's response to a certain number of tokens. There are multiple advantages to this, and we will play with that. There's also temperature. This is a really, really useful output that adjusts randomness and creativity of the output. Depending on what you're trying to do, you might want your model to be more or less random. popP is a little bit confusing because it's very similar to temperature, and it controls the diversity of token selection or nucleus sampling. We're also going to introduce a config file. I've realized through developing this Python script, we're getting too many variables, and I needed a config file to maintain all of these parameters. Furthermore, it allows some future units to be more flexible, help us maintain parameter and setting management, et cetera. We're going to learn how to tune these parameters to impact the response quality of both of our large language and small language models. We're also going to learn how they impact cost and performance. We're going to see the impact between large language and small language model, and importantly, how that may or may not impact intent classification. Okay? Bear with me, and we'll get started with this unit's Python script. Okay, let's get going. All of the same packages as last time, except YAML. We're going to need YAML to load in our configuration file. We're going to get our environment variables and load our configuration YAML file as so. We'll go into detail about that a bit later. This has now cleaned up some of our configuration. We are still going to authenticate like we did before. And we should still have the same helper functions as before. Our token counter is text safe. Building system instructions, that's all the same. We'll also have way that it's not collapsing. We still have the same classify intent. Nothing has changed here, as well as the same classify intent by small language model. That is still the same. But we are making a small change to the routing of the model. Actually, I was wrong. There is a small change to classify intent. We are loading in the parameters to our intent model. Let's have a quick look at that. Here, this is how you can implement all of your new parameters. In the client.chat.completions.create, you can directly put in your actual parameters. Now, remember, this is the classify intent by our small language model. We are going to be specifically changing the parameters for that particular model. We also are going to be doing this for the routing to the model. And here, we're going to have two new sets of parameters. Parameters for the large language model and parameters for the small language model. Here, we execute the intent where we're also having it as a third set, the intent classifier settings. Those three sets of settings we get to modify. Now, when we go to here, this is where we actually execute our large language and small language models. Here, max tokens, temperature, and P change depending on the model. Also, we are implementing here the max pass messages. And this is where we actually take a list of messages and we truncate it to the last certain number. Now, previously, you've only ever seen us embed the... Actually, let me show you. Maybe it's later on. Actually, it's been done in another part of the code. We've only put in the system instructions and the user message. So, it's only been two messages in a row. But actually, because of the statefulness, if you've got a conversation, you grow this list out. So, it might be system instructions, user message, user message, or system instructions, user message, previous response, user message, previous response. And that can keep on growing so your messages list can get bigger and bigger. And here with this, you can truncate it. Note that you have to be careful with this because you might trunk out away the system instructions. But we will go into that in another unit. And then we have our parameters going through. So, I hope it's really clear that all you have to do is use the same line of code you've been using previously and just add in those extra parameters. You don't need to do anything too complicated. Okay? And then our main script will be the same. We're going to have our user text at the front top here. Very simple. Can you refund my order? The system instructions. And then we will route to our model. Now, you are going to observe here a lot more parameters into this. That's because we've got three sets of parameters now. The intent parameters, the large language model parameters, and the small language model parameters. So, you are going to see that this is a lot bigger. Now, I contemplated turning this into a separate function. I'm putting these functions in separate files, creating classes to manage all this. And these are all great ideas. One of the problems I'm dealing with here is I want to have just a single Python script that I upload to Udemy so that you don't need to be downloading all these files and managing all of the folders. So, for now, I'm purposely restricting myself. But this is not best practice. So, don't do this in your real project, in your real application. Why don't you actually clean this up a little bit further? Okay. And then it goes through and gets the response, et cetera, et cetera. Okay, let's have a look at the config file. So, the config file here is created as such. It is a YAML file that gives us the ability to do hierarchies. So, we have a content safety section that we have in some of our content safety parameters, some of our system instruction parameters, some of our intent classifier parameters, some of our large language parameters, and our small language model parameters. Here, we are going to be purposely making sure that our intent classifier has no creativity because we only want it to say simple or complex. So, I don't want it to be creative. I don't want it to change it from simple or creative. So, we're purposely setting the temperatures to zero. I also am purposely setting the max tokens to a very small number. In fact, we can even go even lower than that, maybe five or ten. In fact, let me do five. And therefore, we can ensure that it only outputs a very small, simple, or complex response. It's a really good way to ensure that it doesn't accidentally do something completely different. For our large language model, we actually want it to be creative because it is dealing with complicated problems that may require creativity. But I also don't want it going completely off the rails and doing completely nonsensical responses to the user. So, I'm going to dial the temperature down just a little bit. Now, the max tokens, well, I don't want it to give paragraphs. So, let me actually try and make this more like 500. And therefore, it's going to still be a relatively short response. But at least we now know that it's not going to be completely short either. I'm also locking in the max pass messages, primarily because I don't want a lot of tokens being spent if we have a long conversation history. Now, for our small language model, this is when the response should be simple. So, we don't want it being too creative here because even a little bit of creativity in a small sentence will completely throw off the sentence. So, I'll give it a little bit less flexibility, but not too much. And for our tokens, it'll be 250. So, it has the ability to respond a little bit, but not too much. Okay, let's now go ahead and run our Python script. So, the intention is we want a classifier to use as few tokens as possible and to produce as least creativity as possible. Let's see if five tokens is enough. Okay. Let's control it here. I think I got a transient bug. We'll just execute it again. This happens sometimes on my computer. There we go. It's running. Running the message through content safety. Okay, it's running the classifier. Perfect. Let's see our response. Actually, we need to get the classification. Simple. Okay, cool. Now, let's purposely reduce our tokens even lower. Let's make the tokens be just one token. Let's now see what happens. Okay, we've got a response very quickly. Hey, it actually worked with just one token. How unexpected. So, simple work with just one token. How unexpected. Okay. Let me set the max tokens to just two. Keep it really simple. Okay. Great. Let's now purposely try and force our intent classifier to work with a more complicated statement. There we go. That's a very long generated question from ChatGPT. So, let's now run it again. Okay, let's see our response. Okay, and it still came through as complex. So, I think having a max tokens of just two is ideal. So, great. Let's now leave it. I think we have minimized the temperature and the top heat. I mean, minimized our max tokens. So, that means we are reducing our costs as much as possible. And we're kind of forcing the intent to be simple or complex. I'm very happy with these optimized parameters. Now, let's play with the max. With the max tokens. Let's purposely truncate the tokens to being just 10. Let's see what happens now. So, it's more than what the intent classifier is. It's still very low. And I want to see what the large language model creates as a response. Let's run the whole script. Let's see what happens. Okay. Okay, we got a response. Let me make this a bit bigger to see. Okay, the latency was quite low, which is good. Probably because we forced the output to be shorter. Completion tokens 10. This is really good to see. That means we set it to be 10. And it genuinely was an output of just 10. The response was very, very short. This was not enough. This was not acceptable. This was a complicated message we sent and a very short reply. So, you can now see by making the max tokens very short, we are getting a reasonable response. But it's not good enough for what I was hoping for. Let's now make the max tokens 50. Let's see what happens then. Okay. Ah, here we go. Ah, I see a problem. I'm sorry to hear about it, so it's better. But do you see this right here, the second part? It stopped mid-sentence. It was too short for the LLM. So, here we need to increase the number of tokens. Let's try 100. Okay. Perfect. I think this is now a reasonable response. If you'd like, I can share what makes our product stand out. Please provide your order number. It's multiple paragraphs. I think this is very good. Let's set the max tokens to just 150 to give it a little bit of extra room. But now, I want to try another parameter. Let's see what happens if we take the temperature all the way down to zero. What's going to happen? Okay. We've increased our latency to quite a bit. It was before only about 900 milliseconds. Now, it's 1,400 milliseconds. So, we've almost had a 50% increase. Okay. Great. We've got a decent response. The temperature has not broken the response. Let me copy and paste this. I want to see. I'm going to put this in my own notepad file that you might not be able to see. Let's run it again. I want to see if this response changes. Because, in theory, with low temperature, there is no creativity. So, maybe we will get exactly the same response. Okay. Okay. Okay. Now, I'm looking at my notepad file. I'm sorry to hear about your experience, Luke. The refund. Okay. The first sentence is identical. Let me check the second paragraph. Regarding the product comparison, I can provide information about the product. I do not have access to detailed. Yes. Help you understand. This is perfect. The response we got was identical to what we had previously. Let me now change the parameter to 1. What you should expect is a different response now. So, I hope you realize now that by setting the parameter to 0, you still allow the output to be very high quality. But it means with identical questions, you get identical responses. What I'm expecting now is a different response. You know what? It is very similar to before, but there are differences. Yep. So, this time it's trying to refund the request as quickly as possible. And at the very last sentence, it wants to start with the refund process. Last time it was proceed with the refund process. So, by setting the temperature, we've not fundamentally changed the response, but we have changed it slightly. I'm going to set the temperature actually to a lower number. Let's do 0.5. I'm going to change the P to 0. 0.0. Let's see what happens now. Okay. Perfect. It is still properly working. Okay. Great. Now, it's not normally recommended you make these parameters so low, but we're trying to push it to the extreme. So, let's purposely make the temperature 0 as well. Let's see what happens then. Okay. Great. Hmm. It's taking a little longer this time. There we go. It went through. Oh, the latency was significant. I was very impressed with that. Let's see what happens now. Okay. Perfect. Now, it's not normally recommended you make these parameters so low, but we're trying to push it to the extreme. So, let's purposely make the temperature 0 as well. Let's see what happens then. Hmm. It's taking a little longer this time. There we go. It went through. Oh, the latency was significant. That was very interesting. The latency for running the LLM was almost eight times longer because the max and because we changed these parameters both to 0. So, you can actually see the model is struggling to respond. Let's now have a look. Well, the response looks good, but you can see that the latency indicates there is a problem. The model is struggling to respond. So, this is a good example that even if the response looks good, your parameters are creating problems in the model. So, let's give it back some of our old parameters, 0.5, and let's maybe check the top P to 0.5 as well. It doesn't need to be perfect. Okay. Great. Great. I think for this particular model that I want it to be quite uniform in its response, I don't want it being too creative, I think this will be great. For different applications, you might want to be more strict, but remember, as we just learned, don't go all the way to 0. You might have some latency problems. Now, for the small language model, we would, in theory, want to be even less creative. We want to make sure that we are more standardized because it should be a simple response. But if our max tokens is 150 before, let's make this only 100. And now let me make the, let's now make the question different. Here we go. I'll just make it a lot more simple. Hopefully, this gets routed to the simple model. If not, we'll be doing the same model as before. Okay. What's going to happen? Where's it going to go? It's classifying it, classifying it. That's simple. Perfect. That's what we wanted. So we made it go simple. The latency was still pretty good. The total tokens was only 32, which is great. That is less than our max tokens of 100. I'm sorry we had a terrible experience, Luke. Can you please provide me with your order number? Perfect. Great. So now what we're doing is that if the user sends a simple question, we give them a simple response. If they send us a complicated question, we get a complicated response. Now, you may or may not want this depending on your application, but for this application, I think it's perfect. By doing this now, by reducing our max tokens, we are also ensuring we're not going to have more costs than expected. We're also ensuring that the user should get a more reliable response. And also by changing the temperature, it makes debugging a lot easier. Okay. I think now you've learned how we can use configuration files together with these parameters to change the user experience. So in summary, we have learned the impact of changing model parameters for both small language models and large language models. You learned that max pass messages ensures how much conversation and history is sent to the model. You've learned in max tokens that it can help you set the maximum length of the model's response. You've learned temperature helps you adjust the randomness or the creativity. You learned that top P is similar to temperature and it controls the diversity of token selection. You've also learned that we can use a config.yaml file to help us manage all of these parameters. We continue to use intent classification from previous units and we continue to use cost tracking and latency and how the latency significantly increased with very low parameters for top P and temperature. Perfect. Thank you so much for watching and I'll see you in the next unit.