TITLE: Unit 6: Azure AI Search (Part 1) - Basic Search and Retrieval
LENGTH: 17601

Welcome everyone. Let's go into Unit 6. Now in Unit 6, we're going to be learning about Azure AI Search. And it's actually going to be the Part 1 of a little series of units, because there is quite a little bit to configuring Azure AI Search. As always, let's begin with getting our environment set up. I have already created my virtual environment, so all I need to do is activate it. Perfect. I have already installed all of the required packages and frozen them, so you'll be able to install the packages yourself. Now, there will be quite a few differences to this unit, because we're not going to be using the standard large script we've been developing. This one is going to be standalone, just for setting up Azure AI Search. And then we will expand on it in another unit, and then we'll finally bring it into the larger script that we've been working with. That way we don't just introduce everything all at once. Now to begin with, as always, we need to create our resource group. Okay, great. Let me make it a little bit bigger. Now we're going to deploy the bicep file, and then I'm going to explain what's going on while it's being deployed. Okay, great. I'm just going to wait until it's, ah, an error message. Okay. Ah, okay. I made a very small name. Okay. Okay. Okay, perfect. I just made a small mistake in the bicep file's name. That's right. I can make a very small fix to that. Azure AI can only contain lowercase. That's fine. That is perfect. Let us redeploy the script now. If you did not read the error message, I just learned that I had made a very small spelling. Ah, it's been accepted. Great. A very small spelling problem with the bicep file. So let me explain what that was, and then I'll explain the bicep file. I had named our new service AI underscore search, but underscore is not accepted as a resource name. You must remove it. I removed it, and the bug has gone away. Now let's explain what we are deploying. We are only going to deploy one service in this bicep file. Oh, great. It has been accepted. It has successfully deployed. And what we are going to build is just the AI search service, and that's it. We are going to ensure that we still use the same prefix as normal, and then that will create the AI search resource name. We are going to be using the standard tier. Now there is technically a cheaper tier called the basic tier, but that basic tier is very basic and does not have vector search capability. Whereas the standard tier does, and so we will be using that tier. Perfect. I'm just seeing, does this come up with a pop-up of different... There's a pop-up there. Don't worry about that. There is also a replica and partition count that we have set to the lowest number. For now, because we are doing just testing, we don't need to increase this. But if you are doing far more larger applications, you would need to increase the replicas or increase the partitions to reduce latency. Importantly, we are going to be using our CLI authentication default to zero credential. So we set this to true as we normally do in our bicep file. Finally, as normal, we are going to be returning the service endpoint. I actually don't need the ID and the name. Now I look at this. We only need the service endpoint as an output. Perfect. Now with this very simple bicep file, we have successfully deployed our resource. Let me now go and run the getting of the outputs. Okay. We want the endpoint. Here is the endpoint. I'm going to copy that endpoint URL. I'm going to go to the launch.json file and put this endpoint in as an environment variable. Perfect. Now you are going to see some new CLI commands that I'm highlighting to what we normally include. And that's because a little bit more is needed to get Azure AI Search working. You actually need to ensure that you have the right permissions to interact with Azure AI Search. Foundry doesn't need this out of the box, but Azure AI Search does. So let's now introduce this. This is the first time in my course that I will be showing you how to assign roles to your account. And you can do this all with CLI commands. Now the way you're going to do this is you're going to need three different roles. You are going to need the Search Service Contributable, the Search Index Data Contributable, and the Search Index Data Readable. Now you will understand about the indexes a bit later, but for now all three roles are going to be needed. However, I learned that you might not be able to use your free trial ID, and instead you're going to need your object ID. The command here that I'm going to quickly run, it will return my personal object ID. From there, you just need to copy and paste it as I'm doing here. I'll show you the rest of this. This particular command, which is AZ role assignment create, it takes in your user object ID. It ensures that you're a user, not an application or an agent. You're giving yourself the Search Contributable role, and here's the actual name of the roles. And then there's the scope. The scope will be your subscription ID, your resource group, which is very important, which means someone can only with this role, which is myself, I only have permission for Azure AI Search within the resource group. I also have to put in the name of the search group, and actually, we need to update this. That is fine. Let me just get the search service name, which we actually had before in the Bicep file. I got rid of it. I'm actually going to keep that now that I know this. Perfect. Here is the search service name that we had from the output from before. I'm copying and pasting that. I am going to then replace this. This is what I was doing in demonstration earlier as a test. Perfect. Now I will need to assign myself this particular permission or identity. It takes a little while to go through, and we need to do all of them sequentially. Once this one has gone through, perfect, I am now going to do the other two. Okay, let's do the last one. Almost there. Perfect. Now I have given myself the permissions to interact with the resource that we have now deployed. Perfect. We should now have set everything up. Perfect. Let's now go ahead and look at this script. This will be part one. We are going to learn about indexing, querying, but we're not going to be dealing with vector search or semantic search. In the next part, we will. That is because there's actually quite a few complicated steps to setting up Azure AI Search, and I want to introduce this without throwing in the added complexity. Okay, now for this unit, we are going to learn about how, as you already have, how to use Bicep to automate the deployment of the AI Search service. We are going to learn how to create a search index. This is a very important concept where you will define the structure and the searchable fields for your data. This is needed with Azure AI Search, as it cannot automatically create the index. You must define it. Once you have made the index, you then can upload, or we will upload and ingest documents directly into that index that will prepare them for search and retrieval later. Then we are going to actually perform a search. We're going to retrieve relevant documents, learning how to use Azure AI Search for the real world. We've already learned how to use or assign role-based access control to this particular service. Great. I think we have everything ready to start going with this next part of the unit. Okay, let's keep going. Here we're going to need quite a few different functions imported from the Azure Search SDK. You can use the API, but the SDK is significantly easier to work with. Furthermore, when there are bugs, it is much easier to debug. We only need the search service endpoint because we will be authenticating using the default Azure credential, which makes connection much easier. We can configure this in a config file in the future, but you have to give a name to your index. In this case, I'm going to call it the Unit 6 AI Search Index. We're going to authenticate using default Azure credential. Then we're going to be four, three, there will be three functions that we are going to need. We're going to need a function to create an index, a function to upload our documents, and a function to search documents. Then we can just run the script. It's very simple. As long as you've got a user text message, so user message, which could be the prompt for the AI, then we will be able to get some results from the index. Let's understand the index, as this is the most complicated part. We are going to be making a simple index with a basic schema. Our index is going to have four fields. These are optional. You can include as many or as few fields as possible, as long as you've got a key and the content. We are going to include the key, the title of the document, the content of the document, and a category. None of these are, the category especially is probably the least likely. If you don't have a category, you don't need to include one, but you need to then make an index that doesn't have a category. Now, when you are making your index, you need to use the right field types. The field types such as simple field and searchable field are going to be needed for you to be able to specify data types and to enable the different search capabilities, which is very important to consider because if you're dealing with vector semantic search, you are going to need different field types. We are going to connect to Azure AI Search Service using the endpoint and the default Azure credential. Then we are going to call the search index client to create the search index for us. Then we are going to then create the index using the search service. We've actually already talked about this one. Perfect. That is fine. But let's talk about the vector embedding support. This is really important. Here, we are going to show and we are not showing a schema that includes a vector field, which means this index cannot be used for vector search or semantic search with embeddings. In the next unit, we will go over that so that we're not introducing too much at once. To enable vector search, we are going to need in the next unit a field such as collection or EMD single and that we need to configure it for the vector search later on. We will go through examples of that later. Okay. So here we are. Here we are defining the schema for our index. The ID field, which will be a simple field that will be a string. A searchable field. This is very important because this is what we're going to search on. That will be the title and the string and it will be a string. Another searchable field, which will be content and string and a simple field, a category. But importantly, we will allow this one to be a filterable field so you can apply filters before you apply a search. Finally, we will then give the index its index name. Once that is together, we have not made the search index yet. We still need to send it. So then we are going to connect by using the service endpoint and the authentication. We're going to get the index client and then we're going to do a simple check. If the index already exists, then we aren't going to recreate the index. You can do that by doing index client dot get index and if the index doesn't exist, we will do index client create the index. This is very important. Now, this is where the permissions come in. If we don't get the search index data contributable, then the command that I'm highlighting may fail. So it's very important we have our permissions set up. In the upload documents, we're going to do a sample. We're going to define via a list of JSON strings what exactly all of the documents are going to be. If you have documents from your own company, you are going to need to convert them into a similar format. So you can't just immediately upload a PDF file. You might need to extract the content. Now here, we are going to give an index of one. A very crude, simple way to make an index. But for this case, it is unique. We're going to give a very simple title for this one. Just talking about machine learning with some content, a bit of a sentence. We're going to talk about Python programming, Azure AI search best practices. I'm going to try and return this result later. So I'm trying to remember this one. Cloud computing fundamentals and even a Docker one. I might try and get the Docker document later. Once we have defined our documents, which you could put as a function input parameter for you to make this a very general function, then we are going to connect to the search client. Again, using the AI search service endpoint, the index. So you need the index when you're getting a search client and the authentication, then we can upload our documents. We'll do the search.client, upload documents. Having already tested this, I know this fails if you do not have the appropriate permissions, hence why we had to assign them to my user. When that's done, you will know if the document is successfully uploaded. And now finally, the searching itself. You are just going to need to connect to your search client. But importantly, you need to specify your index already ahead of schedule. You might need to go and search through multiple search clients if you have multiple indexes. And finally, a very simple line of code. You will do the search.client.search in order to search. You will send that user question along with the three categories, the three results you want returned, the title, the content, the category. Then we are going to get our results. We're going to print all of the results so we know what they are, but we'll also return the entire object for later use. So this is a very simple way in order to search the Zuer AI search. In the future, we're actually going to be able to convert the question into a vector embedding itself and the search text should be a vector embedding, not a text. That will be for the next unit. So I've now put in a user question about Zuer AI search. Now what's very important is we are not doing similarity searching. We are not doing semantic searching. So it's actually doing a keyword lookup. Zuer AI search is a necessary phrase in order to ensure that I get the document, a Zuer AI search. If I don't put in these words, I won't get the document. Let's now put it to the test. Let's create our index, upload our documents, and search our documents. Okay. Let's execute the script. So we're going to try and get any documents related to a Zuer AI search. Okay. So now we have successfully got the script working. You can see from the outputs that we did not have any errors, which means my user account has the correct permissions. We successfully created an index. Now because of testing, the index already existed. So it actually skipped the creation. Then we successfully uploaded five documents and you can see them. And then we got the search for what are the best practices for a Zuer AI search. Now we uploaded, let's just double check how many documents we uploaded. One, two, three, we uploaded five documents. And you can see that we actually got four results. So not all five appeared, but we got four. And you can see the very top result was a Zuer AI search best practices with a high score compared to the next best score. And then you get the contents of that document. You can see the other documents have much lower scores. Now this is because, and I'm going to highlight this, the Zuer AI search, even without vectors, vector embeddings and semantic search is still quite a clever searching tool. It uses tokenization, stemming and scoring algorithms like the BM25 all together to rank results by relevance. So it's already, even at its most basic level, a very powerful searching solution. Perfect. Let's now put in another question. Let's make it very simple. What is Docker? Okay. Let's see what documents get returned. We are going to create the index, but then it'll skip it. The documents actually get reuploaded. That's actually not necessary. And now you can see that we got two results, only two results returned. Thankfully the Docker document popped up with the highest score, but we also got the Python programming. I find this very, very useful because we asked a very simple question. We didn't ask anything about Python or programming or web development or data science or AI. We didn't mention any of that. We just asked, what is Docker? But even with that, the search algorithm with AI search at its most basic level was still smart enough to return this document. In future units, we're going to be able to take all of these outputs, put them into an appropriate format for an AI algorithm and apply them as grounding results for our LLM to continue its operation. If it's not obvious with this entire demonstration today, we never once used AI. We did not use an LLM once to help us. You can do searching even without LLMs. But those search results can enhance an LLM significantly. That should be everything that we need to know because we've learned how we can deploy the AI search surface via Bicep. We learned how to create a search index and define its schema. We learned how to upload ingest documents into the index. And you learned how to perform a search query. You also learned about applying the different roles. And very importantly, you learned about how it actually thinks at a very high level. So you now know a lot more about AI search and will be ready to extend this with vectorization in the next unit. Thank you so much and I'll see you in the next unit.