TITLE: Unit 7: Azure AI Search (Part 2) - Vector Search and Semantic Ranking
LENGTH: 15789

Good morning, everyone. This is going to be an exciting unit because we are going to go into developing embeddings and using it with Azure AI Search. So let's get started. At the beginning, I need to activate my environment. I go to the readme file. I activate the environment. I've already installed all the packages. These are actually all the same packages needed from the last unit, and I've already logged in with Azure. So now what we're going to need to do is to create our resources. We are going to create our resource group. Okay. Now, we are going to be developing quite a few different resources this time, but let me start the Bicep file, and then I'll talk about them. We are now deploying our resources, and let's look at this file. So we are still going to be working under a limited scope of trying to be focused on just Azure AI Search. We're not bringing it into the larger script yet, but even so, we need quite a few resources now because we're using an embedding model. What we're going to need to do is to build an AI Foundry resource like we've done previously. We are going to need to build a Foundry project as we did previously, and we need to do this because we are going to be loading in a new type of model. We're not going to be loading in a large language model or a small language model. We're going to be deploying an embedding model, and that's why we need Foundry and a Foundry project because we need access to our embedding models. Now, the embedding model we've selected today is the TextEmbedding3Small. This is a very small embedding with 1,000, I believe it's 36. Hold on. 1, 5, 3, 6 dimensions. The TextEmbeddings3 model is a very good model that allows you to develop vector embeddings. Now, we're going to see exactly what an embedding looks like because we are going to get the raw outputs in this unit. Note that this one is 1, 536 and is very good for semantic search and embedding use cases. There is a large version, but we're not going to need that one today. As you can see, we had a successful deployment, which means not only have we deployed Foundry, but we've successfully deployed this particular model. Finally, independently, we then create our Azure AI search resource. It's actually separate. They are not connected here. Then we need to return all the outputs that are needed. We need our OpenAI endpoint, we need our embedding model deployment name, and we need our AI search service endpoint. Now, before we keep going, we also need to get the right permissions because if you don't remember, in the last unit, we needed to have the search service contributable, the search index data contributable, and the search index data readable. We need to assign these to the resource group and the AI search service that we created so that we can create an index, upload our files to the index, and search the index. Let's assign these permissions. Perfect. Now we have all the permissions that we need in order to use our Azure AI search service. Now, before we go and run the Python script, I need to talk a little bit more about this embedding model. Let's go into the browser and let's look at the Foundry portal. Look at it through the Foundry portal. Here we are. Let's go into our resource group, and let's go into our Foundry project. Perfect. Now let's go into build, and let's go into our deployments. Now you are going to see our successfully deployed embedding model. You are now going to see the model as it is called, if I scroll down, text embedding three small with a successful deployment. If I scroll down, text embedding three small with a successful deployment. Now, this is very important. There are two things that blocked me from using this model that you will need to overcome. The first one is your subscription to Azure cannot be a trial anymore. It needs to be a pay-as-you-go trial. If I go out of this, if I go to upgrade, well, you just saw it for a second. Maybe if I go backwards, okay, it went away, but I've now upgraded to a pay-as-you-go. Thankfully, it is not as bad as it seems because I still get to keep the credit that I was given when I started my trial account. Instead now, where trial I would be completely blocked from using Azure after 30 days, now it'll continue, but for another 24 days left, I have, then I'll have to be paying everything myself. You're actually, there's no extra costs for your trial period. It's actually not too bad going to a pay-as- you-go model. While we're here, note the costs I've incurred. Out of all of the tutorial videos you've seen me build so far, I have only incurred a cost of three Australian dollars, which is very small. So that hopefully will give you some comfort that it's very cheap to run this if you are doing it just for learning purposes. Now to the second thing. The reason you needed, well actually the first thing, going to the second thing, the reason you had to upgrade was because this model, the Text3 embedding model, is not available to trial users. You have to be a pay-as-you-go user. So that is one of the reasons we had to upgrade. The second reason is you have to request for quota. Let me show you what this looks like. For this model, you will, after you deploy, you can press that button and you get a form. You will fill out a lot of details. I just put in my own name, my own email, my own name for the company, my own personal address, my subscription ID, and a little bit of a reason as to why I wanted the model. Then I did Azure OpenAI, model deployment, global standard, and I went through and I found towards the bottom the Text Embedding3 small model. I said I wanted the region, which is Australia East, and then I put in how much I wanted, and I put in a quota of 20, and then I pressed submit. This got approved very quickly, but importantly, you will be denied if you only have a trial account. So you have to be in a pay-as-you-go model, then you can fill out this form, and then you'll get permission to use this model. Unfortunately, all of the embedding models require this, so there was no alternative I could find that was available with the trial account. Okay, let's go back to our VS Code studio. Okay, let's get into it. Okay, so now we've deployed all of our resources and applied the permissions. Let's now get our deployment outputs. Okay, so our OpenAI endpoint, put it in as our environment variable, our embedding model name, our AI search service endpoint. Okay, we should be good to run our Python script. So, what are we going to do in this unit? Well, we are going to move from basic indexing to semantic search with vector embeddings. Previously, we deployed a basic AI search service using Bicep, and now we're going to expand on that. We are going to design and create a search index with both traditional text fields and vector fields to support hybrid search capabilities. We are going to be generating vector embeddings for each of our documents using the text embedding 3 model, converting the text into numerical representations that will capture semantic meaning. We're going to upload and ingest the documents with the corresponding embeddings into the index, preparing the data for both keyboard and semantic search scenarios. We are then going to perform a hybrid search query that combines the traditional keyword search BM25 with vector similarity search, delivering more relevant results by understanding the intent and the context. We are then going to implement semantic re-ranking using a semantic configuration that is going to prioritize the title and the content fields, improving the result prevalence through language-based reordering. We also learned about how to assign role-based access control roles, such as the search service contributor, the search index data contributor, and the search index data reader. Okay, so let's now get started. We need to load in quite a few new functions. We need to be loading in vector search, an HNSW algorithm, vector search profile, and some semantic functions as well. But other than that, everything is the same. We will be loading in our environment variables. We will load our index as the unit 7 AI search index. We will authenticate with Christian. We will authenticate with credential. We will load in our OpenAI client. And now we will have the same functions as before, except one extra. We are going to have the same create index, but with modifications. We're going to have the same upload documents, but with modifications, and the same search documents with modifications. However, we're also going to have a get functions, get documents function, because last time we defined the documents and uploaded them all in the same function. This time, I split it out. Here, we will get our documents without the embedding, just defined in here, just as a temporary placeholder. In a real environment, you'd be reading these documents from some source for your company, but in this case, it's a tutorial, so we're just manually defining them. Now, let's start with the main logic before we get into the embeddings. Well, we are going to ask the question, what is Docker? Remember in the last unit, we got a response that was the Docker document, as well as the programming document. It will be very interesting to see how that changes. Now, we're going to start by creating an index. Let's understand it. Most of the complexity for this unit will be in creating this index. Here, we were creating an index with a basic schema, but we're going to expand it. Oh, this is actually the old text. Let me explain. I will update this before I upload it, but let me explain the new changes. Here, we are still defining the index as before with the same fields I'm highlighting, but we're adding in an extra field. This is our vector field. In here, we're going to call the vector content vector. You can call it whatever you need. We're going to make sure it's a collection edible single type. You then have to specify exactly how many dimensions are in our model, which is 1536. Then we have to give this vector search profile a name. This is how you set up a vector field. Then we have to configure the vector search algorithm. In this case, we are going to be using the HNSW algorithm or the hierarchical navigable small world algorithm for efficient vector similarity search. Remember, you can pick other algorithms like IVF or PQ depending on your requirements, the index size and the embedding model. In this case, we are also going to need to create a vector search profile that specifies the algorithm to use for vector search. Here we are. We run the vector search function defining the algorithm and defining the vector search profile. That now becomes a vector search object. Then we have the semantic search configuration. Because we are wanting to do hybrid searching, we need to define this. This is going to tell Azure AI Search to configure the title field and then the content field when re-ranking results for semantic search queries. Here you can adjust the prioritized fields based on your data and search relevance needs. Here the search semantic configuration is going to be required to enable semantic search capabilities which use language models to understand user intent and context for improved search relevance. Without this configuration, the semantic search will not be able to re-rank our results based on the content of the fields and instead you will only get keyword based search results. We don't want that. We want vector searching or hybrid searching. Here you define it with the semantic configuration function. You say what the prioritized fields are. First the title field and then the content field. Then you just need to wrap this up in a semantic search wrapper. Now that we have everything we need, we've now defined the fields, we've defined the vector search, we've defined the semantic search. Now we put it all together into the index. Here in our index we're going to put in the fields, the index name, the vector search, and the semantic search. Then we just need to then create it. We will connect to the client index like last time. We will check if the index exists. If it doesn't, we create it just like last time. From here, once you've set up the index, everything else is almost exactly the same. Okay. So now let's go into the next stage. We will be getting our documents in which you've already seen. Now let's go into the uploading of the documents. Now to upload the documents, we will load in our documents and then for every document we are going to add the embedding. So we are going to, for this document, for the content of the document, not the title, but the content of the document, we will generate an embedding. Then we will create a new document list which will contain all of the prior information plus the extra vector which is the content vector and we will generate this embedding for every document. We will go and show this vector embedding a little bit later. Then once we have all of our documents with vectors, we are then going to upload them. We are going to connect to our search client and we are going to upload all of our documents to Azure AI Search with the embedding already generated. This is a really important distinction because there are ways to get Azure AI Search to do the embedding generation for you but in this situation we ourselves are doing the vector embedding and we are including it ourselves. We may in another unit show you how to get AI Search to do it for you automatically. Okay. Now let's look at the vector embedding function. Here it's a very simple function. We will be calling the OpenAIClient.Embeddings.Create Note that this is slightly different to before because of the dot embedding. Then we will just call our model given any text and we will get an embedding response. I'm actually going to put a debug in here so we can see what this looks like. Okay. You now just need to know about the searching of the document. Well, now we are at the stage where we want to be putting in the question. So the question is also going to be needed to be converted into a vector. So we will run the same embedding function for the question and get a question vector. Then we can connect to our search client and then what we can do is we can run the search. Now we are going to be putting in the question for the text so we can do our keyword searching. We are then going to be putting in the vector, the question vector, to do the vector part of the searching where we would be putting in exactly what that embedding is by the vector queries part of the search function. We are then going to say the type of searching we want to do which is semantic, which allows it to do both of those keyword and vectors together. We are also going to make sure that we return these three outputs and that we include the total count. Then we are going to print all of the results. Importantly, we are going to get the score which is the keyword score and the semantic score, which is a new score that we didn't get from last time. Finally, we will convert all of these results into a list so that we can use it in the future for our large language model, which in this unit we are not connecting to yet. We will do that in another unit. Let's now go ahead and start running our script with debug statements. I'm going to put in a few debugs just so we are ready. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .