TITLE: Unit 8: Azure AI Search (Part 3) - Agentic RAG
LENGTH: 15218

Welcome, everyone. Let's go into our next unit, which will be the final unit in Azure AI Search. I have now just gone and created my virtual environment. And now we are going to be ready to be able to start deploying all of our resources. Now, in this unit, we are going to be going back to the original main script. We're going to be running our LLMs via a large language model or a small language model, et cetera. And now we're going to be able to add grounding results to help the AI or the LLMs be able to take in more context and help with the order requests, that examples that we've been talking about. So to begin with, let's deploy all of our resources. Let's create our resource group again. Now let's deploy our Bicep files. Let's have a look at this. Here, we are going to be loading Azure Foundry with a project. We're going to be loading Azure AI Search. I also realize we need to also include content safety. So bear with me while I just put in that last little change. OK, we're back. We've now included content safety. So let's now redeploy our config file. Or our Bicep file, I mean. Now let's talk about this Bicep file. We are going to be loading in Azure AI Search. Azure AI Foundry, the project, the content safety resource, also the AI Search resource. We're going to be deploying a large language model, a small language model, and an embedding model. So our Bicep file now is growing with more complexity. Importantly, there are some key stages you need to be aware of. When we start deploying the large language model, we have put on a depends on so that the small language model is only built or deployed after the large language model is deployed. And then same with the embedding model. It will only be deployed after the small language model has been deployed. So all three of our models will be deployed sequentially. And this isn't because, although in theory, Bicep can deploy these models in parallel. I've been finding I've been getting errors in doing so by putting in the depends on statement, I haven't been getting errors. Then independently, we will be deploying an AI Search resource and independently a content safety resource. Perfect. We've now had all of our resources successfully deployed. You can now see we've got a lot more outputs, a lot of endpoints, deployment names, et cetera. Let's just have a very quick squiz to our portal, our Azure portal. Okay, here we are. Now I'm here because I actually want to show you my costs. My costs have significantly increased from 3 cents to $3.13. I'm going to be monitoring this, but this is because of Azure AI Search. It's because it doesn't have the same costing structure as a lot of the LLMs do. It's actually a cost per hour, and I left it running open for quite a few hours. Hence why the costs increased. So now I want you to be very aware that if you are building content, Azure AI Safety Resource, that you want to have it up for as small of a period of time as possible. While we're here, let's look at our resource group and our resources. Great, we can now see our Foundry and our project, our AI Search resource, and our Content Safety Resource. We should have everything we need. If we go into the Foundry portal, let's confirm all three models have deployed successfully. Okay, we're going to build. We're going to deployments. Perfect, all three models have been deployed successfully. Let's now go and run our code. Okay, perfect. Let's now run our CLI commands. Let me now get my, let's now give myself the permissions for Azure AI Search. I'm going to be putting in my object ID. I'm going to need my subscription ID. So let me show you how I would get it. I'm going to go to the portal right now. It's probably the fastest way. I'm going to go up the top and type subscriptions. And here you will see my subscription with my subscription ID. Perfect. Let's now go back. Let me put in my subscription ID. Perfect. The resource group is already eight. Great. Let's now assign the permissions. Ah, ah, I forgot my resource group. I'm going to put in the name of the resource group. There it is. Great. A little thought I was having, if you're familiar with CICT pipelines, a shell script and these CLI commands via your CICT pipeline to fully automate the deployment of your entire application and by assigning the roles. But that is not for this unit. Okay. We have now fully deployed all our resources, applied our permissions. We should be ready to run the script. Actually, we need to get all our outputs. Let us do that quickly. Okay. Our small language model name, our open AI endpoint, our large language model name, our embedding model name, our content safety endpoint, our AI search service endpoint. And I'm just going to put in Luke in customer. Perfect. Okay. Now we should be ready to execute our script. Okay. Now let's go ahead and understand how this script is being put together. Well, first of all, I've needed to create our functions folder. I tried to avoid, I tried to put it off because I wanted it to be one singular Python script, but I've realized it's getting way too complicated. And we start need to, we're going to need to start to put in some best practices for cleaning up our functions or our big script. So now if we go to our script, we are going to be loading in our functions. Now, again, we could also clean this up by turning them into classes, but one step at a time. Now, to begin with, let's describe that we're going to be loading in all of our client functions or client libraries. And we're going to get all the authentication done, done in the main script. We are then going to load in all of our functions and I'll briefly go through them with you. And then we'll be able to essentially run our script or get all of the environment variables ready. We'll load in our configuration file. We will authenticate our script. Authenticate to all of the different services that we need to authenticate to. And then we would go through two big stages. We are going to be bringing in Azure AI Search into this. So at the beginning, we are going to create our index, which means we're going to ensure that we have an index available for semantic search. Then we are going to get our documents, which we will go through in more detail. And we'll upload our documents. Then we'll be ready to actually run our solution. Here, we are going to try and go through an example of refunding an order. Now, we will update this a little bit. What we're going to do is we're going to search immediately for any documentation related to the order. Then we'll go through, build our system instructions with the appending of the grounding results. Previously, this was set to none. So this will be the first time where our system instructions will include the grounding results. Then we are going to check for content safety, ensure that the question is safe. In fact, we could do this earlier, but we're going to do it afterwards, just in case the document that we are getting also has a problem. Then we are going to actually run our LLMs. We are going to do the intent classification and then depending on the model, we're going to send everything. We're going to send the system instructions with the grounding results, with the user question and get our response from the LLM. Finally, we're going to ensure that the output is safe. So for everything that we've learned so far, this is going to be an end-to-end demonstration. Now, let me talk about these functions. I have put all of our helper functions into one script. You should be familiar with this. No major changes were made. I just had to ensure that the clients were being passed through appropriately. For intent classification, nothing significant has changed. We just have to make sure that we are sending in the OpenAI client into the intent classifier. For model routing, it will be the same. We just are passing in the OpenAI client. Everything else is the same and as expected. What is new is we've created these AI search functions. Here, all the functions that we previously discussed in the prior unit are all in here. The only major modifications made is the inputs. We've ensured that the index client gets passed through when needed or the search client has been passed through when needed. We're still running the same embedding model. We're still searching the documents via semantic search. If I go through and show the index, you can see we are still defining the semantic search vector field. We are still defining a vector search, still defining a semantic search configuration. We are still defining the index in the same way. Everything is pretty much the same. I did make one very small difference. I created a slightly different if statement output so we don't have to keep recreating the index and so we don't have to keep continuously uploading our files. Let me show you what I mean. Here, we are going to create the index. And we're going to check if the index has already been created, then we won't create the index again. And if the index has been created again, we're going to make the assumption the documents have already been uploaded. So then we will also skip the uploading of the documents. Just a little trick to try and make this code more seamless. And what I really want to make you pay attention to is the get documents. For this example, I have changed the documents. I'm actually putting in order numbers, a series of order numbers from different people. Or you could pretend on the same person. So now we have a lot more data to work with. So when we ask the question, I don't have my order ID. Well, now we can actually get that context. We can help the customer identify their previous orders and continue with the refund. So let's now go ahead and run the script. I'm going to, can you please refund my order? I bought a TV and it wasn't, and it hasn't, and it's, and it was broken before I turned it on. It was broken before it was not functioning. I first got it out of the box. Okay. Now, in theory, we have created a document, if I show you, around a TV. Let's see what happens. Okay, great. We will run this. We will get our grounding results. We should be able to then send it to the system instructions, go through content safety. You could argue content safety could be at the very beginning before we even continue. In fact, we can do that. Why don't we do that? Let's put content safety at the very beginning. Let's put it in right here. Perfect. So now it's ensuring everything's still, yep, we've got all the inputs. Now we're going to have content safety. So let's now run this first. Okay, let me put this up, because this will be quite a lot of outputs. Okay, we are creating the index. Now, I've already run this, so the index was already created previously. Let's now see what happens. We are scanning the user message. It passed the safety test. We have got four results come back for our grounding demonstration. This is actually an unexpected, well, I'm expecting this, but I have not told you why this should be an unexpected response, because we are only asking about a TV. So why are we getting an espresso coffee machine or yoga mat appearing? So this is something that I'm going to teach you how to optimize. However, the great thing is we are talking about the TV, and the very top result was our 55-inch 4K smart TV. So this is great. It definitely shows that our AI search is working as expected. Then with all of these results, we are then going to count the tokens for the system instruction. Even with all of this, we are getting 478. Great. It's not too bad. Let's now have a look at the assistance reply. I'm sorry to hear about your TV not functioning. To assist you, could you please provide me with your order number? Okay, so the way we've set this up, it is still not able to respond without knowing the order number. Interesting. Let us make sure and be completely certain the AI is getting the order number as a part of its system instructions. Okay. So I'm going to purposely pause it here. And let's now see and just be certain the grounding results are going through correctly. Okay. Grounding results. Ah, okay. We have a problem. The function is not returning the grounding results. This will probably be a small bug. I'm just going to put in a debug right inside the searching. Let's understand what has gone wrong. Okay. We're here. This should be no output. Yes. Do we have results? We do have an iterator. Okay. Very interesting. I know that we definitely got the results here. So yes, we could even seal the results. I think this is just a small little bit of Python configuration that I need to fix. I'll get back to you when I've rewritten this part of the code. Okay. We have now fixed it. We are now getting the results as one long big string, which is how I was hoping it to be turned into. Okay. Now, while we are here, I want to show you one config setting that I've added in. I've added in the top K. This is going to tell you the top results to send back to the AI search. And because we are only looking for one refund to come back, I'm going to set this to one. So, in theory, we should only get one document returned, which will be the TV refund. I'm going to then import a TV previously, which you should have record of. And it was not functioning when I first got it out of the box. Perfect. Hopefully now the grounding results will pass through successfully and the AI will be more helpful. Okay. I'm just turning off all the debugs. Let's run our script. See what happens. Okay. Okay. So, you can now see that the system instructions have jumped to 873, almost doubling previously, which means I can confirm that the documents have been appended to the system instructions. This has been classified as complex. Great. Now we've got our response. Ah, very good. This is a very different response. The agent is now saying, thank you for reaching out, Luke, to assist with the refund order or your refund request or your TV order. Can you please provide me with the order number? Ah, okay. Well, it's still not being able to locate it, which is unexpected. Let us then, just while we are here, directly get the order number from the documents, just in case you want AI search functions. Order ID. Okay. Hopefully we will get this to work. Ah, cool. Perfect. Look at this. We now got the response I was actually hoping for. It now says, thank you for providing your order ID. It's no longer asking for the order ID. It also put in my name. I will check the refund eligibility. Perfect. Or exactly the TV that we mentioned, although it does say Ultra HD, I don't think it was called Ultra HD before, but the 55 inch 4K Ultra inch smart TV with the order number. Please give me a moment. Perfect. We have now been able to ground our model with information about the TV because we never said what TV it was. We just said TV and it has been able to identify exactly which TV it was based on the order number and the documents that we grounded it with. I hope you can now see how you can ground results using Azure AI Search through this end-to-end walkthrough. Thank you so much and I'll see you in the next unit.