TITLE: Unit 11: Multi-Agent - Handoff Pattern
LENGTH: 18442

Welcome, everyone. In this unit, we are going to go through the first chapter, or the first unit, in multi-agent orchestration. Now, technically, we've done a lot of intent classification, which is a little bit of multi-agent orchestration, but I would really only classify it for what we're going to do today. So let's get started. As always, we are going to start by deploying all of our resources. Now, there are some changes today with our resources that we're deploying. So let me now very clearly show you what those are going to be. Just turning off the test formatting. There's a few test commands that I wrote on previous tests. Okay, let's now deploy our resources. Okay, now let's have a look at what these resources look like. So this is actually an even simpler Bicep file, almost as one of the most simplest Bicep files that we have been using thus far. We are going to only be using one language model. Now, you could technically use more, but for this application, we need a large language model for our agents. I emphasize the word agents. But in this case, we only need one model to use across multiple agents. So we only need one model, and it needs to be one that can handle complex interaction. There's nothing different to show here, other than that we're just deploying the large language model on its own, and only the three outputs. Perfect. Now, if we go to the launch file, I've already pre-deployed it. Just need to get rid of the test. Perfect. Great. We have now set up our environment variables. We will just wait until these, as I said that, we've now finished deploying all of our resources. So now, let's go ahead and get started. Okay. So now we are in the main Python script. So let's begin with understanding what we're learning in this unit. We are going to be doing multi-agent handoff pattern. In the prior unit, the script had a single agent that used MCP to discover and call tools from an MCP server. However, this agent, it could not transfer conversations to specialized agents. So there was no conversation transfer happening. In this unit, we are going to learn in detail about the handover pattern, or the handoff pattern. This is a multi-agent, and multi-agent orchestration, a multi-agent pattern, where one agent transfers control to another specialized agent, passing the full conversation history to maintain context. We'll also learn about agent classes. Here, separate Python classes for different agent roles will be created, such as an agent class for support, and an agent class for billing. We'll also be learning about the handoff tool. This will be a specialized tool that allows the LLM to request transfer to another agent. This is probably the most fun part about handoff. It's actually taking the tooling concept and using it to do a multi-agent pattern. It's what I like about the handoff pattern. And then we'll also be learning about our router function. This is a function that would direct user messages to the currently active agent. Now let's continue going through the script. Here, we're going to be loading in all of our important classes and packages. We will be loading our environment variables. Remember, we're only loading in the large language model, not the small language model. We'll load in our config file, and we'll get to authentication. We will authenticate as we normally do. We will instantiate our classes. This will be content safety. We will instantiate our support agent. We'll also instantiate our billing agent, and we will instantiate a conversation router. This is how we will set up the script. The main script logic will be simpler than normal. It is as simple as what I'm showing you right now, just what I'm highlighting. We are moving away from fixed sequential logic where it's just one message with one reply to now more dynamic conversations that can continue indefinitely. This is an important step as we develop more sophisticated and practical agents. We will have a variable user input, and this will just be a demonstration for the script. But most importantly, we will have the main routing happening via this message and a safety check for every response, and we will continuously loop through if the user wants to continue the conversation. Note that in this example, the user can get out by using any of these three keywords. If not, we will keep looping through, getting a response from our agents, and checking the safety of the output. Okay? So now let's go ahead and understand what these classes are actually doing. Okay. So let's have a look. Let's start with the support agent. Okay. So the support agent class in some ways is very simple. We will instantiate it by just ensuring that we give our agent a name. We will also put in what the model is it's going to be using, an open AI client to work with the model, some parameters for the model, and also a bit of context about who the user is that's communicating with the agent. Now, we're going to be creating system instructions separate for every agent. So now it's not a universal system instruction. It's an agent-based system instruction. Here, we're going to say you're a support agent, making it very clear. And then you're going to be helpful and knowledgeable about products and policies. We're going to talk about boundaries, as we normally would. So persona, boundaries, the same pattern that you've seen before. But we are also going to introduce tools. Now, we will go through this in more detail in this unit, but let me introduce it. We're going to make sure that tools and handoffs are together the same thing. We're going to define a tool called handoff to billing. And we're going to tell it when to use this tool so the agent knows when to hand off the billing. When the user asks for a refund, about billing or charges, user asks to change payment method, or user asks for invoices or receipts. And when you hand off, you need to summarize what the user needs in the reason parameter. And then after handing off, the billing agent will take over the conversation. So the tool is going to be a tool that you're actually already familiar with, a tool from the tools unit, a tool from the MCP service. Handoffs use tools as well. And we are giving the tool a name, some parameters, et cetera. We'll also be handing over the conversation state just to help with the entire logic flow. So now let's define this handover pattern. Well, you might be familiar with this from the previous units. You're going to see that this is a handover pattern or handover pattern tool that we are defining explicitly for the support agent, not to be used by any other agent. It has exactly the tool formatting required by OpenAI client. It has the type function, function, has the tool name, the tool description, and the parameters for the tool, even the required parameters versus the optional parameters for the tool. Everything to describe a tool. This tool is called handoff to billing. And then we give it a description, transfer the conversation to the billing agent. And then we give a parameter or property, which is reason. It must be a string, and it must explain why the conversation needs the billing agent. So we are literally creating a tool for our support agent. So now we can bring both of these together with the universal process message function. So this message will process a user's message and return the agent's response. If the agent hands off, it will return a special handover signal. Let's have a look at that. Here, we build the system instructions, and then we create the messages array. We are also extracting the handoff tool, the definition of the tool. With all of that, we can just call the OpenAI client. It's actually very simple. We call OpenAI client dot chat completions dot create, hand over the model messages, the previous user's message, the model name. We give the tool itself that we want the AI model to have access to, and the choice, the choice if it wants to call the tool. Then we check for the response. And this is very similar to what we saw previously. If the agent wants to call a tool, there will be no content, and it will run all of this. If not, it will just return the content as if it was a normal response without any handover. So this is all very, very familiar, the tool cooling, because that's what we're doing. We're using tools as a trick to use them for handoffs. Now, again, you're familiar, but let's go through it. Let's say we want to call, let's say we want to execute this particular tool. Well, you've got the arguments. You've got the reason. So we put all of the information together, and then we go ahead and we create an updated history. So we create the updated history, and we return a special output. We return none on the first output, and a list of parameters, the handoff to billing agent, reason, updated history. So we're not actually calling the tool here. So this is the biggest difference with using handover pattern versus tool cooling. The algorithm thinks we are calling a tool, but actually we are just returning a very special formatted output. Note the opposite pattern here. If we don't call the tool, the second parameter is none, and the content now is the first output. So we're creating a very special output, and the reason this works is we have another client called the conversation router, and the conversation router will understand what to do with this special output format. So now let's go ahead and look at this conversation router. So if I ignore the serialization, let's look at the conversation router. Well, the conversation router brings in everything. It brings in the content safety, the support agent, the billing agent, and it is what sets off everything, because if we go back to the Python script, you will see it starts off with the router.processMessage, so it is the entrance point to this entire flow to the handover pattern or the handoff pattern. So at the beginning, we initialize it to start with the support agent. So when you start your conversation, the support agent is already the agent of current that you'll be talking to. Now let's understand the process message. Here, the user message will process with the currently active agent, which at the very beginning is the support agent. If a handoff pattern occurs, the agents will switch and the conversation will continue. It will start off by making sure that every new input from the user is safe. Then we go to the if statement. If the current agent is the support agent, then you go straight to running and processing the message from the support agent. You'll put in the user's question plus the conversation history, and we run everything for the support agent. Notice that you see the two outputs, the response and the handoff, where the response is sometimes blank and sometimes the handoff has value, and other times the response has content and the handoff is blank. These are the two outputs that are going from the support agent. If we go back to the support agent as a recap, if a handoff is not occurring, you will get the assistant message dot content. If a handoff is occurring because the support agent has decided by its tool it wants a handoff, you won't get any content, but you'll get a set of information for the handoff itself. So this is how it works. Then we have another if statement. The if statement will be like, well, did you give me a handoff value? If not, then run like normal. Store the user message, store the response, go back and send the response to the user, see if the user wants to keep the conversation going within the while loop. But if there is a handoff, if there is an output and there's not none, then switch the current agent to the handoff agent. So if I go back to support agent, you will see handoff is to the billing agent. So you could even have multiple, many, many different agents, where this might become a parameter output in its own right. And you can manage multiple agents all together here. Here, because there's only one, it is quite simple, but we know it is going to be going to whatever agent was asked of on the support agent, which has to be the billing agent. Furthermore, the conversation history from before, let's have a look at that. One conversation history, the conversation history being the updated history as followed, which is the user message and the reason for the transfer. So the updated history has both the original prompt and the reason for transfer. That now becomes the new conversation history for the conversation to occur. If that happens, we are going to run the process message, which is this very own function itself all over again. And we'll go all the way to the top. We will make sure that everything is safe. And then we'll say, well, now we're not with the support agent anymore. We are with the billing agent to run the billing agent process message. And now let's have a look at what that would look like. Well, it's going to look very similar to before. The billing agent will build system instructions. Let's have a look at that. It now has its own separate system instructions just for the billing agent. This is the one that handles refunds, charges, invoices, and payments. It has similar boundaries and it also has very similar handoff instructions. So you'll find that it becomes very much a loop. Then you want to get the handoff tool. So let's have a look at the handoff tool. It is very similar to before, but it's specific saying handoff to support, not handoff to billing. So it's a very slightly different tool definition. So now we're at the billing agent with the system instructions, the handoffs. Again, we run the OpenAIClient.chat.completions with the tools, with the auto choice, and it's going to decide, do you want a handover? If you do, format all the outputs, return no content, return the handover information. If not, return the final message. So the conversation router, it's not actually executing OpenAIClient. It is just essentially recognizing what the current agent is and if a handoff value has been sent out or not. And it will continue this loop. So it's a really clever way that you can use tools to trick a handoff to occur. And this is the handoff pattern. I think we also need to talk about serializing. Let me just, it's actually another part of the code. We'll talk about this one later. Okay, before we go into that, let me go ahead and demonstrate an example. Okay, so let's execute the script, shall we? Okay, so we are now here. Let me ask a question. Can you please refund my TV? Now, let's see what happens. We started with a support agent. It repeats the question to the support agent. It's, oh, a handoff has occurred. We've moved from the support agent to the billing agent. The reason is the user requested a refund to their TV. The handover completed. We now have a new billing agent. The current agent being the billing agent. The user message, can you please refund my TV? The billing agent has responded with, I can help you with your refund. Can you please provide me with the order number for the purchase? Perfect. You can see now that it has officially successfully managed this handoff. Let's now do one more example. Can you please provide me with the order number? The order number is 123. Okay, it's staying on the billing agent, sending the question. Give it a moment. It can take a little while sometimes. There it is. Thank you for providing me with the order number. Please confirm your refund amount you have requested. So this time, because we stayed within a refund context, a handover did not occur. I actually just deleted the serialization function. I originally needed it when I was building this out, but I didn't anymore. Okay, so now let's go ahead and put some debugs in just to gain a little bit of a deeper understanding if this wasn't too fast. So at the beginning, let's go straight to... I'm thinking I would like to see... Let's go to the support agent. Let's do that. And let's go to the first time we get a response. Let's run this as a debug. Okay, so now we are ready to put in a question. We'll do the same question as before. Please refund my TV. Okay, support agent confirmed. Okay, support agent was the first one. Can you please refund my TV? Great. So now we've got a response. Let's have a look at what this response looks like. The assistant message. Okay, you can see content was none. But there was the desire for a tool call. So let's have a look at what that tool call looks like. You can now see it says handoff to billing. So let me have a look at the handoff tool. Well, we gave the tool handoff to billing. So great. It has successfully done exactly what we hoped for. Let's go ahead now and look inside the next part. Great. The reason the user requests a refund to TV. And this came exactly from the tool outputs on the LLM. Great. Now we can update the history. Let's have a look at this updated history. The updated history shows role, user, content. Can you please refund my TV? This is role assistant content transferring you to billing because the user requests a refund to TV. So great. You've now got this updated history. And this updated history is the history that the billing agent is going to inherit and then continue the conversation from. So technically, it is a three-way LLM conversation. You have the first question prompt. The second prompt is coming from the support agent. And the third will be an output from the billing agent. So it's almost like three people are communicating together in sequence. Perfect. Okay. So this has been a demonstration of how to use multiple agents together with the handover pattern or the handoff pattern. Finally, let's summarize what we have learned. We have learned that this script introduces multi-agent handoff pattern. We learned about agent classes and that using separate classes for different specialized roles is how you can make your agent separate. We learned about the handoff tool, a tool that allows agents to request transfer. And we also learned about conversation router. The conversation router helps you manage which agent is active and handles handoffs. I hope you've learned a lot about the handoff pattern, your first introduction to multi-agent orchestration. In the next unit, we will continue our knowledge of multi-agent orchestration. Thank you so much, and I'll see you in the next unit.