TITLE: Unit 12: Multi-Agent – Magentic (Manager) Pattern
LENGTH: 16991

Welcome everyone. In this unit, we're going to learn about the magentic pattern, the next part of our multi-agent orchestration part of this course. So, as always, I have gone ahead and deployed my resource group, and I've also deployed our resources via Bicep. These are exactly the same resources as the previous units, so I didn't feel the need to show them again. We've also activated our virtual environment, so we are all ready to go. So, let's get into it. Okay, so, unit 12, the multi-agent magentic manager pattern. In the previous script, we used the hand-off pattern where two peer agents, support and billing, transferred control directly to each other. Here, the agents were aware of each other and could hand off conversation. This is a different pattern. This is a hierarchical pattern where a manager receives all of the user requests and then delegates to specialized sub-agents without the sub-agents knowing each other. So, it's a different pattern. It's not an extension. It's a different pattern. The manager agent is an agent that never directly, but never answers directly, but identifies intent and routes to the correct specialized sub-agent. Now, for this example, we are going to create three sub-agents, specialized agents for refunds, for products, and for accounts that can receive delegated tasks and return results to the manager, and not directly to the user, but returning them to the manager. We're also going to look at some routing metrics, trying to track which sub-agent handles how many requests, and importantly, there's no state transfer. Unlike the hand-over pattern, sub-agents do not receive conversation history. Okay, so let us show that we load in our environment variables, the same as before. We authenticate, the same as before. We instantiate our classes, content safety. Now, we'll go into detail, but we'll instantiate our three sub-agents first, all ensuring that they're using the OpenAI client and the same large language model. And then we'll instantiate the manager agent that will load in all of the sub-agents, itself having to use an OpenAI client and large language model, and then we'll have everything instantiated. The main script is quite simple. It is as simple as starting the user input and using another while loop, where this case, we will take in the user input, check that it is safe, and then send the question directly to the manager agent, and we'll let the manager agent manage all of the processing. So using this while loop, we can ensure that we have a conversation with the manager agent constantly managing these conversations. And then finally, we'll get from the manager agent all the metrics, so we can understand some of the things that have happened in the conversation, how many times each agent has been called, for example. Okay, so let's now go ahead and understand what our agents are with the classes that we've created. Okay, so let's start by looking at just the individual agents, because they are much simpler than the manager agent. Let's start with the refund agent. This is an agent that is a specialist that handles specific types of requests. They do not know, and I emphasize that, they do not know about the other agents. They just receive a task and return a result. To start with, you just need to set up their connection to OpenAI Client and a large language model. Like you normally would, you will build a system instructions. So in this case, you are a refund specialist. Your job is to process refund requests and check for refund eligibility. Give it some boundaries and give it a process. Ask the user for the order number. Check that the order is eligible for refund. Tell the user the refund amount and the estimated processing time. And if it's over $1,000, explain a manager approval is needed. So just a standard system instruction for our specialized refund agent. So this is where we actually call it. The process request will process the refund request and return the result. Then we will return a string response and send it back to the manager. It's actually very simple. Whenever you process the request, it will get the system message. It will append the system instructions with the user's message. And it will run the client. We're not running any tools here. We are just running the client. And then we will turn back the response. So it's actually a very simple agent. System instructions, get a query, send the query, get a response. Simple. All of our agents, like the account agent, will be exactly the same. It'll still build its messages, run the LLM, send a response. For the account agent, it is an account specialist. It's going to handle profile updates, password changes, and account settings. It is going to ask for verification before any changes, guide the user through updating their profile, confirm when changes have been completed successfully, and it will never perform destructive actions without explicit confirmation. Whereas the product agent, this is a product agent that knows about product features, specifications, and comparisons. It will understand what product information the user needs, provide accurate product specifications and features, and if asked to compare products, will list pros and cons for each. It will also recommend the best product based on the user requirements. So three different agents doing three different jobs. So let's now talk about the refund agent. Not the refund, the manager agent. OK. So the manager agent, this is the agent that receives the user's request and delegates it to each of the specialized sub-agents. It does not actually answer the questions directly. It only routes and synthesizes the responses. So to instantiate it, this model, this manager agent still needs to call an LLM. It needs access to the agents and a little bit of extra details like the username. We will also create a metric where we will count how many requests to each agent that we will return later on. So let's talk about the processing of the message first, the very beginning. This is going to process a user message by classifying the intent, which specialist is needed. And then we're going to delegate to the appropriate specialist. Finally, we will return the specialist's response. Now if I collapse this for a second, let's see how it is. It will build some system instructions and create and put the user's message in with the system instructions. So like normal, it's then going to call an LLM. This is the manager agent, to be very clear. This is not the sub-agents. The manager agent itself needs to call an LLM. But what makes it unique is that it is using tools here. This is really similar to the handoff pattern where the agents calls a tool to know if it wants to do a handover or not. That is what's happening here. The manager agent is going to be calling a tool to decide which agent to send a response to. Now if potentially it's decided that it is over, we don't need to call a tool. It will then say it was unable to route. Because that's not how this agent works. This agent needs to do routing. So if it doesn't route and it doesn't choose to do a route, then it's actually going to say unable to undetermined intent, no tool call. This is a situation that we do not want to have. So let's now look at what this tool definition looks like. Here we have created our tool. Now we've actually given the agent three different tools. So let's now look at each of them. The first tool, name, delegate to the refund agent. And then the description is, send the request to the refund agent for refunds or returns. The properties, you need to send the user message. It is via string. And it needs to be the user's original request. Required user message. So we're just creating a tool that says, if you want, you have the choice to delegate to refund. And this will just be almost copied and pasted for the other agents. Delegate to product. Send the request to the product agent. Send the user's original request. And delegate to account. Send the request to the account agent. Give the user's original request. So what you can see is our manager agent is just calling tools. He doesn't really understand. You're the one that knows why it's calling these tools. And then we can execute them. So now, if it wants to call a tool, which it should do every single time, then we can actually see what happens. Well, we get the tool name, the tool we want, which in this case is the agent that we want. We get the user message. We ensure that we get it on the manager agent. And then we run our if statements. Then we can run the delegate to refund function, or the delegate to product function, or the delegate to the account function. So this is how we run it. Now, let's have a look at what these functions do. Delegate to refund. Very simple method. It just basically says, call the refund agent. Run the process request for the refund agent. So now, let's pretend that's happened. Let's go back to the refund agent. Well, now, we've started the execution of processing the request. Here, we will generate the system instructions just for the refund agent. We will embed the user message that actually was the parameter for the tool from the manager agent. And then we will run the refund agent via the LLM and return the response. So now, let's go back to the manager agent. We've now, in the section I'm highlighting, got the response back from the refund agent. That response itself is wrapped around a return, which means we aren't going to, as I'm scrolling down, going to return, I'm not sure which specialist can help with that. Instead, if I get it right, we will be returning the refund agent's response directly. That will then pull you back to the main script. You will now get a response from this entire processing message from the manager agent. And then we will make sure it's a safe response. The user will read that response. And then we'll give the user the opportunity to continue the conversation or to finish it. So it's actually a very simple process, where the manager agent just has three tools and transfers to each of these sub-agents. So why don't we now go ahead and give this a try? OK, so let's now run the debug to gain a deeper understanding. So I'm going to put the debug in just before the manager agent makes its decision. I think it will be here. Perfect. Let's now run our script. OK, the temporary error, as it always is, has kicked off. It's very peculiar what happens here. Something to do with the VS Code extension, the debug pie. OK, give it a second while it corrects itself. Now we can run it again. Now it should be OK. Great. So now you can see the printed output. This system uses a manager agent to delegate to specialized sub-agents. You have the manager agent doing the routing, the refund agent the product agent, the account agent. Now, let's use quit, exit, or buy to end the conversation. And let's put in an if question. So let's do the first one. I want a refund for order hashtag 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. This should now take us to the debug. OK, here we are. So we have now run the manager agent's OpenAI client with the tool choice. Let's now see what the response looks like. OK, content is none, which means it won't be able to do anything. So let's run the debug. And now we can see that the manager agent OK, content is none, which means it wants to use a tool. Which tool does it want? Delegate to refund. We can now see that it wants to delegate to refund. So now let's put in an if statement here. Let's go to the I'm not an if statement, a debug point. Now let's see the tool call. OK, let's look at the tool name. The delegate to refund. Let's look at the arguments. I want a refund for order 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. So it's the original user message. Great. Just needed to confirm that the manager agent has not rephrased the original user's message. OK, now we can run the delegate to the refund. So let's now go to the refund agent, go to the process message. And let's now put a debug in just after the response. So now we've now called the refund agent because it ran this code which delegates to the refund. We're now inside the refund agent. Let's go ahead and look at the system message. You can now see that we have got the URL refund specialist. Perfect. The messages, let's have a quick look. It shows the system message, but it also shows the user message, I want to refund for order. So now, from this model's perspective, it's got everything it needs to do to run a query as normal. Let's go ahead and now look at the content. Of that response. Thank you for providing your order number. I will check the eligibility for your order, et cetera. Perfect. Now let's go to the next stage. We're going to return that result. Let's turn off all of these statements. Let's actually go back to, I'm just thinking of going, I want to go back to the manager agent. So I want to go to the response again. We should now be going back to the user input. And then I'm going to put in a question that makes us go back to this debug statement. Let it keep executing. Taking a bit longer than I expected. Ah, it's waiting for a response. OK, great. Can you actually tell me the pros and cons of a 70 inch TV? So now I'm asking a totally different question. Let's now see what the manager agent does. In theory, if everything has gone well, we shall be routed to the product agents now. So let's go ahead and have a look. OK, let's look at the message. Perfect. We are now delegating to product. That's exactly what I wanted to see. So I hope you can see now that the manager agent is calling tools and is helping to manage all of this. Let's now turn off all these debugs. And let's do some end-to-end testing. OK, let's execute it. So let's run the script without any debugging. OK, I want a refund for order hashtag 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. OK, so the manager has decided we are delegating to the refund agent. And the refund agent has responded. Thank you providing the order number. I will now check if this order is eligible for a refund. Please give me a moment. Actually, I want to know the pros and cons of a 70 inch TV. OK, so now let's see what the manager agent does. Sometimes it's a little bit slow. I haven't actually quite figured out why it can be this slow. I don't know if it's the LLMs. I don't know if it's something to do with my environment. OK, that took a little while. I believe the manager agent took a long time to make the decision or there was a potential latency problem with a connection error with the large language model. I believe there is still some latency problems because it is taking a long time. I believe the product agent is taking a while to respond. Very peculiar. I'm just going to turn on and off the full screen. No, it is not a problem. Oh, very peculiar. We got a response. Oh, we got a very long response from the assistant. That might be why it took so long. This makes sense. So now we've got a long set of pros and cons. Unfortunately, I pressed enter and I caused a bug to occur where I know what's happened here. There was a null text for content safety and the content safety app had an error message. But great, you can now see that even with our second message, the manager delegated us to the product agent and the product agent gave us a very deep response. This means we've not set up the max tokens, which means we would probably need to implement this because as you can see, we've got a very long response and this is not what I was hoping for with this demonstration. But great, I think you have seen enough now to see how we can use the magentic manager multi-agent pattern. You now understand that the manager agent routes requests to specialized agents and never answers directly. The sub-agents, they are the ones that handle each specific domain and they're the ones that respond. There's also no state transfer. The conversation history doesn't get sent to each sub-agent unlike handle. You can actually do a combination of handoff and magentic manager multi-agent pattern, but that would be quite complicated that I don't feel like we need to do as it is not examinable. But it is a possible thing you could do. There's also routing metrics. Now, actually, we never saw that because of the error message that occurred. But what would happen is very clearly is we would be counting every request to every different sub-agent and we would return all of those results. And finally, we've learned about hierarchical control. You've learned about how a manager knows about sub-agents, but the sub-agents don't know about each other or the manager. Again, if you want the sub-agents to know about each other, you would need to do a combination of the handoff pattern with the magentic pattern to be able to do state conversation transfer while still using a manager agent. But that is not examinable, so we're not going to talk about it. OK? Thank you so much, and I'll see you in the next unit.