TITLE: Unit 13: Sequential vs Concurrent Agent Execution
LENGTH: 20192

Good morning, everyone. Welcome to our next chapter or our next unit, where we're going to talk about sequential versus concurrent agent execution. Let's get started. Let's ensure that you have created your virtual environment, that you have activated it. There we go. Load it in and make sure that the requirements have, the packages have all been installed. Furthermore, let's make sure that you have your resource group deployed and all your resources deployed. I have gone ahead and already done it, but let me quickly show you what those resources look like. We will just be loading in the Foundry project and the large language model. We won't be even loading content safety in this demonstration. And we'll be loading in the GPT 4.1 mini model. Perfect. Great. If we look at the environment variables, we will be loading in the unit 13 environment variables. So all is pretty simple. Everything should be all good to run. So let's go ahead and start reading our Python script. Okay. So sequential versus concurrent agent execution with LLM calls. Now, I say this because you can run sequential versus concurrent functions without needing LLMs to be called. But in this case, what is the point of doing this unit or this course if we're not using LLMs? So we're going to ensure that as we run these sequential and concurrent functions, they will actually be executing LLM calls. In the prior unit, we learned about how you can create a manager agent that delegates the sub-agents and then all operations would run after each other or one after another sequentially. There was no ability to run multiple independent tasks at the same time. So in this unit, we're going to go through another way to do sequential execution, where another way of organizing how one task run after another. For example, when the output of task A is needed for task B. And then I'll show you the concurrent. The concurrent execution is when multiple tasks run at the same time using the asyncheal.gather function. This is when tasks are independent and don't need each other's results. We'll also be looking at dependency. So we'll be detecting dependency, analyzing where the tasks outputs flow into other tasks. We'll look at timeout handling, setting the maximum wait time for concurrent tasks, as well as partial failure handling, the allowing of the continuation of the overall execution of the functions, even if some of them fail. So the way we're going to work is we're going to use three classes today. We've grouped up all of our LLM executions into the LLM calls class. And then we've got a class for sequential and a class for concurrent. Let's look at the configuration. We load in our environment variables and config file. We authenticate as we always do. And now we're going to instantiate our classes. Here for our large language model agent, we will load in the normal inputs, the OpenAI client, the large language deployment name, the config file. And then we will load in and set up our sequential and our concurrent agents. So now we are ready to start looking at the examples we're doing today. Example one, concurrent. And example two, sequential. So let us very briefly talk about the concurrent. In the concurrent, we are going to use Asyncio. This is important. You need to know this one for the exam. We're going to use Asyncio to run multiple independent LLM tasks at the same time for efficiency. So what is Asyncio? Well, it's a Python library. It helps you write concurrent code using the async slash wait syntax. It allows us to run multiple LLM calls simultaneously without blocking the main thread. Let's very briefly look at it. Because in some ways, once you've got your concurrent agent set up, it's very easy to configure. You essentially get to describe all of your tasks by this particular formatting. You get a function. In this case, a large language model with a get weather function. We'll look at that in detail. You'll pass in your arguments directly and any description. The description, I believe, is just for yourself to understand. So this is describing one LLM call. Your second one will be your concurrent or your independently run LLM agent. It will run get exchange rate with its arguments. So now by doing this formatting, you can then get it all to be run concurrently, which means both of these tasks are going to be run at the same time independently of each other. Because of the way we've formatted all this, you can add other tasks as long as you've set up your agent function to run very simply with arguments. You're good to go. You can run and put in as many tasks as you want. I'm showing you this formatting because for sequential, we're going to use a very similar set of formatting. So let's explain the sequential. For the sequential, we run tasks one after another with a sink here, passing the results from one unit or one function to the next. This is necessary if task B needs the output of task A. Now let's have a look. Here we have the same as before for the first task. Our LLM trying to analyze the sentiment of a particular piece of text. Not a problem. But the second one, this has to run after this one. This one is trying to say based on the response of the sentiment, give another response. Based on the result of the previous sentiment analysis, give a response. Now in this case, we are using a special thing called kworks to help us put in the previous sentiment results plus the original user's question. So now we're using these to help tell the function here you need to wait. You need to wait for the previous task. So why do we have kworks and not just arguments? Well, kworks is going to allow us to specify special instructions for how to pass results between the tasks. Here, use previous results tells the agent to take the results of the previous task and pass that as an argument to the current task. Whereas use original arg allows us to pass the original input user text to all tasks, even if they are not the first task. This way we can have a chain of tasks where each one uses the original input and the results of the previous tasks as needed. Finally, with these tasks for the sequential running, we run the same as syncio.run as we did before. Let me just show you. See, same as syncio.run, but before it was concurrentagent.run. Here it is sequentialagent.run. So now let's go ahead. Let's go into these classes to try and understand exactly what they are doing. Okay, let's go ahead and look at the concurrent class. No, actually the LLM course class because this is going to be used for both and it is a lot simpler. So here we are. We have not much going on this time. We have essentially all main applications of an LLM that we've just forced into these functions just to make it work. But we have a main LLM call that we've had to put into this class. Note that everything now has a sync. So this is a new difference to what we had before. Now look at our LLM. We are running the normal LLM command. This openai-client.chat.completions.create as we are used to. But we are wrapping it, or rounding and await a syncio2 thread. This is important because this means that we can now execute multiple calls to the LLM without having to wait for any single response to occur before we run the next one. So we now have the choice if we want to run them sequentially or concurrently. So we've just created essentially a wrapper around the LLM call to allow us to run a syncio code. Perfect. Now, just for this quick example, let's look at getWeather. So we're just going to put together a prompt. We're going to keep it very simple and we're going to call the LLM the prompt. In this case, please provide the current weather or whatever city we provide. Very simple. We're not trying to do anything crazy for this example. We're just trying to show you LLM calls concurrently and sequentially. Same for getExchangeRate. Here's a simple prompt with two inputs. AnalyzeSentiment is also very simple. Analyze the sentiment of any text given. Meant to be quite simple. The generate the response is a little bit more complicated. It's again still a prompt. This one has two inputs and we know that one of them will be the output of the other function here. Other than that, they're very simple. So now let's look at concurrent. Here we are going to define our class. So it's actually very simple. We've just got one function to execute. Here we can run multiple tasks at the same time and the total time will be the time of the slowest task. You can do this when tasks are independent and that means there's no dependencies between them. So we're going to be using this function here to collect all of our functions and put them into what's called coroutines and then we will execute them. So let's explain what this is doing. So we're going to build a list of coroutines to run concurrently. What are coroutines? Well, they are special functions defined with async def, which is what we did earlier. If I go back to the LLM course, all of these functions are defined with async def. Very important. So concurrent are special functions defined with async def that can be paused and resumed. So it's very powerful in that way, allowing for concurrent execution. Here we can create a list of coroutines by calling each other's functions with arguments. So it's a little bit of a wrapper for all of the tasks that we have previously shown to be inputting. Just a reminder, we show the concurrent, these are the tasks. So these tasks are going to be converted into coroutines. Then we can essentially execute them using the asyncio.gather. This is important for the exam disk command, so please memorize it. But what does asyncio.gather do? Well, very simply, it takes in multiple coroutines or multiple async functions and allows you to run them concurrently. We've also wrapped it around an asyncio.waitful. This is important because it wraps an awaitable and asyncio.gather is an awaitable, there we go, like the result of asyncio.gather and raises a timeout if it takes longer than the specified timeout. So this just helps us with timeout, but the asyncio.gather, this is doing the main job. Importantly, return exceptions. This was a little command we added in that says if an error occurs, still return that exception as a final result. And that should be really everything. Recurrent is pretty simple. It is a little complicated creating the coroutines and running the asyncio.gather. Once you've done that, it just executes all the functions. Finally, there's just a little bit of code here to help us count how many successful results occurred and how many failed results occurred. Not too complicated. And then finally, you return the concurrent execution, all of the successful results, as well as how long it ran for. Simple as that. It looks complicated, but it's really just a bunch of formatting to help you run your functions in any order, paused, resuming, etc. So now you can see, we have our tasks, calling our agents, the arguments for each of those particular functions, a description just for us to understand, not for the LLM, and then we can run it. We can run them at the same time now. Okay. So now I'll get back to you and we will do the sequential code. Okay. So let's now look at the sequential code. So here we have described our sequential code. Now let's go into the sequential class. Again, we've just got one function in this one, but it's in async def. Here, we're going to be running tasks one after another. The total time will be the sum of all tasks. Here, we'll use this when tasks have dependencies and we were going to support the previous result and the original argument as dependent tasks via special keys in KBugs. Use previous result, use original argument. So at the beginning, we're going to store the first task's main argument. That's fine. That's just a little bit of helper code. We're then going to be running this function here. This is a little bit of code that is going to help us so that we can then execute everything with the dependencies. It's a little complicated, but at the end of the day, this is the line of code that executes the function. Here's each function with its arguments and its KBugs. Let's explain what this is doing. We're going to loop through each task in the list of tasks. So that is here. We're going to list, we're going to go through all of the tasks. For every task, we're going to print a header indicating which task we're starting. Here, there we go. Then we're going to check if the task has any special instructions in its KBugs for using previous results or the original argument. We're going to be checking for previous results or use original arguments. We're going to check this in the KBugs for the task. If the task wants to use previous results, let's have a look at that. In this case, there is no KBugs, so you don't want to. But for this one, we do, we've put KBugs and we do want to use the previous result. If the task wants to use the previous result and we have one, we add that to the KBugs for the current task. So let's see that. Previous result. We're going to now add the previous result as an argument. So at the end of the day, the function will be executing this as an argument to the function. But we're using the KBugs just to make it more transparent what we're sending and what we're not sending. If the task wants to use the original argument, which is a separate thing, and we have it, also add that. Let's have a look at that. If we want to use the original result, add this as an argument or to KBugs argument. So here we are, we're just searching if these things exist. Finally, we now have everything prepared to run the tasks function with its arguments and KBugs. We can then await for the results and append it to our results list. So with everything prepared, we've now got our task arguments prepared, our task KBugs prepared, we can run the function. And then because there's a loop, we will append the results sequentially. And finally, we will calculate the total time elapsed. It's not too complicated. Running code sequentially and concurrently is not too tough, as long as you've got your code set up to run them as functions defined in the way that we're describing. So now you can see that we can execute the first task and that this task ensures with the KBugs that we're going to be including the previous results. Great. And now, because everything has been running via sync here, we can now run it. So now let's go ahead and actually execute our code. Let's see what actually happens. Okay, so let's go ahead now and execute our code. So how about we put in a debug into the concurrent just to make sure everything is working as expected. Let's put it in for getWeather. We'll put it in just before the calling of the LLM. I will put it in here. Let's do that. So we'll go back to the main script. What we're going to aim to do is call the getWeather via this particular formatting. I'm going to be running async here. This will be independent. It'll be interesting to see how the debugger works for the async here. Okay, let's have a look. Here we are, executing the script. Okay, we're running them independently. Because of the async here, I don't believe it is. Oh, no, it has worked. Interesting. Because it's independently run, even though I've done this, technically, we should still have the other one functioning as well. You are the weather assistant. Very interesting. Great. Let's have a look at our response. I'm unable to provide real-time weather updates. That's okay. You've learned from previous units how we could put in tool access to allow it to get weather access. Okay, let's continue. I believe it has now gone to the second LLM. Yes, you are a financial assistant. Great. Let's have a look at the response. Oh, it actually has given me a response. That's interesting. It's definitely not real-time, but it's given us a response. Let's now finish this off. Oh, very peculiar. Why would it happen again? Ah, I know why it's happening again. We are now doing the sequential coding. So let me pause that here. Let's pause it here. And let's now go ahead and put in a debug before the sequential even runs so we can see the outputs of the concurrent without the debug. Okay, let's run. Okay, so now let's see everything for the concurrent running without the debug stopping so we can see the outputs. Running total time. Time will be the time of the slowest task. We're running both tasks. They're both executing. Neither have finished yet. We've executed both of them at the same time. Interestingly, the first one to finish was the exchange rate one. Even though we actually created this as the second task, that one finished first. Beginning weather for London, that is still taking some time. So this is one of the great things about concurrent is the order of finishing is independent. We don't know which will finish first. Strangely, the weather one is taking a long time. I wouldn't expect that. Taking a bit longer than I would have expected. Okay, we had a timeout. Very unexpected. I believe, I believe nothing was actually wrong from what I can tell. We've not got a major error. It's just we got the timeout error. As I said, there you go. We actually got everything to finish now. But, yes. Let me increase the timeout and let's run this again. Okay. Let's run this one more time. With increased config. We're going to make it 120 seconds. Okay. Let's run it. Let's see what happens. Now, if you didn't notice, I've got a bird. The bird just flew past the camera. But, please ignore it. Okay. So same as before, we're getting an execution. We might unexpectedly be having a problem. We have, in my config file, I've set, set the max tokens to be 150. I might actually make this even less to ensure that it is faster. Okay. The weather one is taking much longer than I expected. It's using the same LLM prompt. Keep response under 50 words. I don't understand why this would fail. In fact, we saw earlier, we got a response from GetWeather. Ah, perfect. It just took a little while. I was impatient. We've now got all our responses. I was impatient. We've now got all our responses. We got the USD. We got the, sorry, we got the exchange rate. We got the real-time update. It was very good to see how one was very fast and one was very slow. And our total time was 69 seconds. So this has been an example of how to run our code concurrently. Let's now go ahead and do an example of running it sequentially. Okay. So I'm just going to comment out this code. Probably the fastest way to do it all. Let's now run our code sequentially and see what the outputs look like. Okay. So now we are analysing the sentiment of I love this product. We've started it. It doesn't mean we've finished it. We've now finished that prompt. We've got the response. Now we're starting the second one, generating a response based on the sentiment. This is working exactly as expected. We'll give it some time. I'm questioning if I've done anything wrong in my code to make the second response, the second functions take so long to execute. But I don't think so. We'll just give it some time. Okay, great. It is finished. We've now completed our response. Now look, we didn't print the response out for us in the console here, but we've now run both tasks sequentially and it took 65 seconds. So now you can see that in our previous example, it took us about 68 seconds to run two tasks concurrently, where one task took a long time. In this case, it took 65 seconds to run two tasks sequentially. I hope now you understand how you can run code in these two different formats using some classes to help you do it. We learned about a concurrent agent to run tasks in parallel for efficiency. We learned about sequential running, where you can pass results between them. And we learned about task restructurings, how you can define LLM tasks as callables with arguments for flexible execution. Finally, we learned about reusable patterns. Using these agents can help us do this as reusable as we need. Okay. Thank you for watching and I'll see you in the next unit.