TITLE: Unit 16: Agent Memory – Long-Term User Memory (Cosmos DB)
LENGTH: 21950

Welcome, everyone. We're going to continue with our memory units. We learned about Redis memory and how it can help us save conversation history. Now we're going to learn about longer-term history using Cosmos. And in this case, we're going to be looking at saving the user preferences. Now, to give perspective, when ChachiBT first got released, there was no user preferences being saved. It was only your conversation history. Every single conversation, you started from scratch, only retaining the history of the conversation. But then at some point, they released an update where your profile essentially gets updated and maintained between your conversations. And then it meant that all of your conversations became more and more personalized with their responses to what you as a user want. You might potentially want an agent that is replying more empathetically or more scientifically and objective. It adjusted its preferences based on how you were talking to it. So today, we're going to show you how we can start that setup. Okay. So first, let's deploy our resources. Just making sure we have set everything up. Yes. Okay. Now, let's go ahead and have a look at what this Bicep file looks like because it is actually going to be quite complex, as in there's quite a lot going on with it. So we are still going to be deploying the resources we're used to. The AI project, I mean, the AI Foundry, its project, content safety, and Redis. But we're also going to be adding on our Cosmos resource. And with that Cosmos resource, we are also going to be building the database for Cosmos and the container for Cosmos. So we're now actually building up quite a complex Bicep file with a lot of resources being deployed. If I skip down to the bottom, because nothing else has changed from the previous unit, we now have added in our Cosmos DB resource. Here, we will include everything we need in order to make this as free and zero cost as much as possible, which will be perfect for development. We will then deploy a database within Cosmos DB, and we are going to be deploying the container. Now, very importantly for the container, we're going to be using a partition key of slash user ID. If we don't get this partition key correct, as I actually did during my testing, we won't be able to send anything or retrieve anything correctly from the container. So I'm making a special emphasis that partitions are always important for Cosmos DB, but I'm emphasizing that this is the partition key that we are using. We also need to remember that indexing is automatic with Cosmos DB, but I have put in some parameters to control it, and the indexing will be a composite index of the user ID and the timestamp in which we are inserting all of our user preferences. Furthermore, we will be putting in a default time to live of 90 days. Again, Cosmos DB is a long-term data storage, not a short-term. So by doing this, we set it to 90 days to keep that long-term history. Finally, we have our outputs. In this case, just as before with Redis, we are going to be putting in essentially the copying or the components for a container string. It is not the most secure method, just as I'm just making that point very clear, but we will get the endpoint, the database name, the container name, and the primary key to authenticate without needing to use default zero credential. Okay. Now, because we are deploying a lot of resources, the Bicep file does take some time to execute, so I'm going to pause the recording and get back to you when all of the resources have deployed. Okay. So now, finally, all the resources have deployed. Let's now go ahead and get our environment variables out of them. So get our deployment outputs. Okay. Here they all are. So now we're going to go into the launch.json file, and I'm going to put in all the factors, the Redis port. Actually, just make it a little bit easier to see. Okay. So we are going to be adding all those in to the Redis host name. The access key. Again, I will be deleting my resources after this video, so you won't be able to use my Redis. LLM deployment name. Here we have the Cosmos primary key. Database name. The database endpoint. Well, actually, the Cosmos endpoint. The container name. And the content safety endpoint. Okay. Right. So now we've put in all of our environment variables. Let's go ahead now and look at our main Python script. So let's start with another summary. We're going to be working with agents with mem, and we are now introducing long-term memory. We are going to be storing user preferences in history across multiple sessions, and that sessions refers to short-term conversations. So the agent remembers returning users between conversations. Cosmos DB, for those who need a recap, is a globally distributed NoSQL database that provides persistent storage with automatic indexing and time to live. We are going to be storing a user profile that's going to persist across the conversations, and we're going to be using hybrid memory. We're going to be combining the short-term memory that we learned previously with the long-term memory. So that way we have the preferences at conversation start, and we have the short-term conversations during every single session. We also are going to be using the partition key, a field that will determine how data is distributed across Cosmos DB. And we're going to be using, it's actually not user underscore ID, it's user ID. That's the old bug that I accidentally previously had. We'll be using user ID as the partition key for the performance of our Cosmos DB container. Okay. So let's start with authentication. We need to install the Cosmos package. I have already gone ahead and done that and put that into your requirements.txt so you can install that readily. We will be creating multiple classes today or one new class, the Cosmos memory class. And then our agent with memory class is going to be loading in both the memory class and the Cosmos memory class. So here we load in the extra class. We're going to get all of our environment variables. We are going to authenticate to our LLM, to our OpenAI client and our content safety client. We will connect to Redis. And now the new code is we will be getting the Cosmos database client. With the endpoint in the primary key, we will get access. Now, what you need to then do is you need to get your database client to eventually get your container client. So here, once you have your Cosmos DB client, you can then put in the database to get the database client. And the dot read here, this checks if it actually, we have a connection successfully retained. If you get a failure here, something has gone wrong with your connection. Assuming that has gone successful, then we can get the container client. And again, we check to make sure that we can read that container client. With that, we have now got all of our clients prepared. We can now instantiate the classes. We'll instantiate the content safety class. We'll instantiate the Redis short-term memory class. And we will instantiate the Cosmos long-term memory class with all three of the clients, the config. Then with our agent with memory class, we can put in the other two or actually technically three instantiated classes. So that way our agent with memory has everything that it needs to run. Now, let's actually hold on. Let me change this message. I'm trying to refund my broken TV. Perfect. Let's start from the beginning. And now everything will look very similar to before. We will have our user message. We will check if it's safe. We will build our system instructions like before dynamically. And then this will be where the main workhorse happens. We are going to try and get a response from our agent. Now, what's new here is the user ID. We need to create a user ID that we can reference to get that all of the user preferences back. So your application needs to be able to handle this. For chat GPT, your user ID may be your username or your email that you log in with. You can actually use emails as your user ID here. We have our session ID, which is like our conversation ID. So this needs to change with every conversation. But this needs to stay the same as long as you're the same person for all of the conversations. That way you retain your long-term history, and you can change between your short-term history. Now these are both Redis functions that we learned previously, but this is a new one. Here I am showing an example of how you can update the long-term history. We will go through this later. And then that should be everything. Then you check if the reply is safe, and it works. So let's go ahead now and look at the Cosmos DB class to try and gain a deeper understanding to what it's doing behind the scenes. Okay, so Cosmos DB with memory. So let me collapse all the functions. Okay, so here is our Cosmos DB memory class. We are going to be storing the long-term user memory with Azure Cosmos DB. We're going to store preferences, past orders, settings, et cetera. It's whatever you want to be parsing. At the beginning, we are going to just initialize the class. That is fine. Now we have some functions within this that we can use. We can get the user profile, save the user profile, update the user profile, and a debug that I created because when I was having some problems, I needed this to understand what was happening. Now for the get, we are going to take in the user ID, which in this case is Luke.gin, and we will be supplying that in this case as the item and the partition key to read in the user profile. So we're going to get the container client. I'm emphasizing we're getting the container client, not the Cosmos DB client. But with the container client, we can then write .read, and then we can put in the user ID with its correct partition key and the item, and you will return the result from the Cosmos DB database. We will now have in everything associated with the user preferences. It will be a JSON format, for example. If a failure happens, it's going to tell you if no profile exists for the user. That's what I was getting previously happening. I was getting consistently no profile loading, and that was because I had the formatting of the partition key wrong. Okay, so it's quite simple. You just need to know that it's .readitem for sending information to Cosmos DB, and that you've got to get your partition key correct. Now I'll show you saving. Here is a format for what the data is going to look like in Cosmos DB. So here my profile has an ID, a user ID, a preferences that we're going to show you later. This can be a complex object, the last updated, and the time to live. So this will be the profile that we will be sending and getting back from Cosmos DB. You then can essentially send it because we are saving the user profile. You will do the container client upsert item. Again, that's a very important line of code that you need to know about. Now you can update preferences. This is another way of doing the same thing. Here it's actually calling the save user profile. So it's actually not doing anything different. Here we are getting the current profile, and if there are any key value pair that we want to update, which I'll show you an example of, we update then the profile and then save it. So really, the getting and the save are doing all the work here. Very briefly, I will show you the debug. It will help you find all items in your container to see what you've actually got. It will do some tests to check if you've got the partition key correct. It will do a query to make sure to see all of your different items. It will also try and find any specific profile if you have a profile ID of interest. In this case, I've put in my profile ID. So this is everything. Now, you can use these to then put this into your agent. So let's go ahead and show you how we are using this class in our agent. Okay. So let's now go ahead and look at our agent with memory. So you should already be relatively familiar with this. We are just adding in a few new functions. We initialize it with the Cosmos DB, the Redis memory, OpenAI client, et cetera. Now, here I will actually skip over this. I will get back to it later. Okay. So below here, this is all functions associated with Redis that you are already familiar with. And let's look at the processing of the message. Now, I'm going to just make this smaller. The only difference is we are going to be modifying the code that I'm highlighting. We've added the code in, and I'm highlighting right here. Outside of that, I'm just checking. Nothing is different. It's actually very similar. So at the beginning, we are going to load all of the conversation history in the state. Then what we are going to do is we are going to load in the information from Cosmos DB. So at the very beginning, it's all very simple. We're just loading everything in from our two storage locations, our short-term and our long-term. When we get our user preferences, we are just going to make sure that we actually have a value. Because if we've never, if this is the first conversation a user is having, there will be no user preferences. So we will just give our user the default preferences and save them a profile. So that's a very simple little catch that does need to happen for first-time users. From there, we have the user preferences. So what are we actually going to do with it? Well, here we are going to update our system instructions. We are going to create an extension of the system instructions prompt that will contain the user preferences. Let's have a look at that. So in this case, I'm going to extract a few bits of information, like the temperature, the user preference for temperature, and put it into a more readable format like Celsius or Fahrenheit. And then we're just going to take the system instructions and essentially append in a slight modification or an extension. We will call this section user preferences, and we'll put in temperature, default address, past orders, the language. We can put in whatever we want. And then we'll tell the LLM to use these preferences to personalize your responses. For example, report weather in the user's preferred temperature unit before changing preferences. Amazing. So it's really quite simple, and you can add in as much complexity as you think might be needed for your application. And that complexity could be, do we want to be updating system instructions as well as changing messages, or do we want to be changing what we are saving as user preferences? We can do a lot here. So we process our message. We update our system message. If it's the first time we've started this conversation, we will add in this modified system instruction. If not, then technically we are not going to do anything. Yes, we will load in the user preferences, but that won't be changing anything if we are continuing our conversation. And then we execute the LLM, as we always do. We get the reply. We then send the returned results back to Redis. Now, technically, we could add in an extra stage here where we have potentially another LLM, like a small LLM that is trying to detect user preferences. And it might actually go ahead and look at the last response or the last message the user sent and the entire conversation, and it might change what the user preferences are. And then we could go ahead and we could update them by writing cosmos memory save user profile. Now, we've not done that because I'm trying to show a simplified example, but you could use another LLM to help you calculate what these user preferences are. You might also only want to do this on a particular period, such as for every 10 messages, re-evaluate the user's preferences. That way we are not spending a lot of money running an LLM just to update user preferences. Okay. I think we have pretty much everything we need now to run it. It's not that difficult. Okay, so let's run it. Let's run our main script and let's see what happens. Let's run our script. We are trying to get a refund for broken TV. I'm going to change my session ID to 123 and I'm going to give myself a different name. I'll just give myself a one. I want a completely clean slate. We could make these actual variables so I don't have to manually do this. Let's run it. Now, what we're going to do is we're going to put in our system instruction. Then we're going to change the user preferences later on. But to begin with, let's go ahead and put a debug inside our cosmos memory. Actually, no, we'll put it, yes, in cosmos memory. Get user. Cool. I'm going to put the debug in right here. Okay. Let's execute the code. This is a new conversation with a new user profile, so there shouldn't be any history. Okay, here we are. Let's show our user ID. Luke.gin1. Perfect. Let's see if we get a response. No, we don't. We get an error message, which is exactly what I was expecting. We don't have any existing data for the user, so that's where the except comes in, and we will say there is no profile for this user. That's exactly what I was expecting. Okay. Now, let's go and put in another one. Let's put it in just before we save the profile. Okay. Okay, so let's see what we're actually going to be inserting directly into the up insert profile. Okay, so you are going to see my ID, but also my user ID, my preferences, and here you will see by default it is the temperature unit Celsius with no previous address and past orders. You can't see it in this perspective. There are no past orders, and my preference is English. Now, these default preferences, they need to be coming, if I'm not mistaken, from the agent with memory. There it is. Here is a simple function to get the default preferences. Here we are. So here we have this profile in this formatting, and that is exactly the format that Azure Cosmos DB's client is going to need. We can now run this and we can send it. Okay, we got a successful response. So now let's go ahead and rerun it for when we are getting the profile. Okay, let's run this now. Okay, here we are. Now, now that we have up-inserted it, we should get a response. Perfect, no error message. Let's see exactly what was returned. Okay, did we get exactly the same data that we inserted earlier? It also includes the time to live, the last updated, which is exactly a few. I'm just looking at that. That was exactly two minutes ago. So everything is in there. Perfect. So now we've demonstrated how you can use up-insert item and read item to send and get data for Cosmos DB. Okay, now I think we do a full end-to-end execution. And I also want to show you what happens when we change the user preferences. Let's do that. Okay, so we are going to run this script one time. Let's see all the outputs and knowing that we're going to be updating the user preference as well. Okay, our message has been saved. We have loaded the profile for loop.gin1. Okay, we've loaded the profile. We've got a response. We've checked it for safety. Hi there. I can help you with your refund for your broken TV, et cetera, et cetera. So we've got a response for the LLM. Great. So it's a fully working end-to-end with the loaded loop profile. Let me now go ahead and put in that debug statement in one more time. I want to see that it's updated to Spanish. Okay, here we are. Let's get the response. Perfect. If you look at my profile, you will now see my language is Spanish. Very interesting. Now, I've actually not tested this, but let's see if the response from our agent is in Spanish. I wonder if we'll get confused because the user message was in English, and if the preferences are in Spanish, I'm not sure the LLM is going to decide what to do. Okay, it's still returned in English. I would probably need to do more modification to the prompt, so let me do that. There it is. If the language preference is the language... No. The language preference is the language. Okay. If the language preference is the language, the language preference is the language that I need returned to the user, that I need returned to the user, user in. Always respond in that language if specified. Yes. You can safely ignore the language of the user message and respond in the language specified in the preference. Perfect. Let me make this a bit all on one line or actually on multiple lines I meant. Okay. Now that I've changed the prompt, let's see what happens. So we know our preference is Spanish now. Okay. Oh, it still didn't work. How unusual. Well, this would probably require a lot more debugging to force to occur, but I hope you can understand now how we are using the user preferences with Cosmos DB and connecting it also with the short-term readers memory. So now let's summarize everything we have learned. We have learned how to introduce long-term user memory with Cosmos DB. Long-term memory is referencing user preferences that can occur across multiple sessions or conversations. Cosmos DB is a globally distributed NoSQL database for persistent storage. Here we are using a partition key of user ID that distributes data evenly across partitions. In this example, we are using a hybrid memory of short-term for readers conversations and long-term for Cosmos DB. Here we are using a user profile where we are loading the preferences before the conversation and saving on any changes. And we looked at the time to live that will auto-delete inactive user profiles to manage cost. That's important. I never mentioned this. The time to live gets reset with the user preference consistently, which means if the user profile has been having conversations, those user preferences are going to be retained. But if the user hasn't been talking to this agent or this solution for 90 days, then we will delete the user preferences. Perfect. That is everything you need to know about Cosmos DB. Thank you so much for listening, and I'll see you in the next unit.