TITLE: Unit 17: Multimodal Integration – Vision, Speech, Document Intel
LENGTH: 20420

Welcome, everyone. In this unit, we're going to learn how we can give our agent multi-modal capabilities. We're going to teach our agent how to analyze an image, how to read files, and how to translate speech into text, or how it doesn't actually do it, but we can use other services to do it for our agents. So first, we need to deploy our resources. Now, I've already gone ahead and deployed them because they took a bit of time, but let me show you what the Bicep file looks like. So, today we are going to be deploying the same AI services that we are used to, AI Foundry, our project, content safety, and one large language model. So, what we are already very familiar with. But we're going to be deploying three other cognitive services outside of what you are used to. We're going to deploy a vision service, a speech service, and a document intelligence service. So, let's have a look further down what that looks like. Okay. So, here we'll be loading in the Azure AI Vision Service for image analysis, giving us optical character recognition, captioning, and other multimodal analysis available. Importantly, this is going to be the free tier. Now, what's very important about the free tier is you could only have one resource of this deployed at a time. And you might say, that's okay, I delete my resources. But it turns out, it's not quite as simple as that. Let me show you. When you run the command, delete my deployment as I'm showing you. I found that it wasn't enough. It is technically a cognitive service, and that has to be deleted manually afterwards. So, I've had to add in three extra lines of code here to delete the vision, the speech, the document intelligence service individually afterwards. That way, we can fully delete it. And that way, we can deploy it again if we do need to for testing, or debugging purposes. So, that is a limitation of the free tier. You can only have one version. But hey, it's completely free for yourselves to use. Same with the next one. We will be loading or deploying an Azure AI speech service. This is a great service that lets you translate speech into text, or turn speech text into speech, or even do speech translation. So, here we are deploying it again with the free tier. In this case, we'll be looking at the speech service in particular. And then, the Azure AI document intelligence service for processing forms, invoices, there we go, forms, invoices, receipts, etc. Again, this will be the free tier. Now, to get access to these, we are going to have the vision endpoint with the vision key. The document intelligence endpoint with the document intelligence key. Now, interestingly for speech, you don't need an endpoint. You just need to give it your region, which was an unexpected differentiation. But you still need to give it a key. So, here we will be using this to connect to our three deployed new services. Okay. Now, I've already gone ahead and deployed the resources, but everything should be ready to go. Okay. Let's now go ahead and have a look. And we're going to start by looking at our basic agent. We'll be using a very basic agent for this example. In this case, what I mean by that, an agent which can process a user message and take in an Azure AI service response to generate a reply using an LLM. So, it's very simple. You instantiate it as you always would. You load in, you process the message, you give it the system instructions. So, we start by creating the system instructions. We append onto that the Azure AI service response, depending on which of the three services we're getting a response from. And then we append in the user's message and we send all of that to our LLM and we get a response. So, this is a really important distinction here, that we might believe that large language models are able to take in an image directly. Now, there are deep learning models that are specially built for taking in images and they actually do have capability such as image classification and image descriptions, etc. But those are not the same as large language models. Large language models, at least in the current version, don't have that functionality by default. So, instead, what you do is you append or you combine other algorithms to do that image analysis for you. You can use the Azure AI service, which itself is likely using a deep neural network behind the scenes or you implement your own custom deep neural network algorithm or your CNN as you might want to call them. And you use those to analyze your images. And then you send that information as text emphasizing the phrase sending as text with a text description to your agent to then use that as grounded information. So, long story short, all we are doing here is we're grounding data. You know, instead of searching for a document in a database, we will be which you can actually do with this if you integrate it properly. We will instead be immediately taking in an object without needing to find it in a database doing a translation of what it is into text and then from the text giving it to the LLM as if it's a grounded piece of content. Okay. So, without all out of the way, let's go ahead and look at what these AI services look like. So, let's look at the main script. With our main script, we are going to be learning about multi-modal integration. Vision, speech, document intelligence, etc. What's new about this unit is we are going to be learning about Azure AI Vision, AI Speech, and AI Document Intelligence. In AI Vision, this is a cloud service that Azure hosts that analyzes images to generate captions and extract text. Whereas Azure AI Speech, it is another cloud service that converts spoken audio to text and text into spoken audio. Document Intelligence is another cloud service that is very good at extracting or being able to extract structured data from documents like invoices, receipts, and ID cards. It's a more like specialized version of AI Vision specifically to structured data. So, we are going to learn how we can integrate all three of these in to give our agents multi-modal integration or capabilities. Now, we load in the appropriate packages. This has already been done for you and it's been sent to requirements.txt We load in all our environment variables. We authenticate as we are used to. And then we authenticate and we get the client access to the other three services. We get our Vision client, we get our Speech client, or in this case it's technically a Speech config, and we get our Document Intelligence client. So then by having all these clients, we can then pass them in to an Azure AI Services class. So let's go ahead and have a look at that Azure AI Services class. Okay. So let's now go ahead and look at our Azure AI Service class. So in our Azure AI Service class, we have all of the functions needed to run our three different Azure AI Services. We will begin by instantiating, in the instantiation, loading in the three clients, the Vision client, the Speech client, and the Document Intelligence client. For the Analyze Speech, let's have a look. Azure AI Vision analyzes image files. It will generate a caption describing the image. Note that this feature is not available in all regions and is unfortunately not available in my region unless I do a downgrade to a prior version. For my region, and most likely all regions, you can do optical character recognition or finding any text found in the image, as well as tags that help you describe the image. The great thing is the tags are close, not perfect, but a close replica of what a caption would be. So you can still use this even if you're in my region. This is very important as I mentioned earlier because our agents or our large language models cannot see images directly. So we're going to use this service to convert the image into some text that then the agent can use as grounded information. Actually, so, first of all, we need to load in the image. Now I've already got an image, so let me show you. In the inputs, I've got an image of a broken TV, a random image on the internet. We are then going to load in this image. Then we're going to call the job itself. We're going to go to visionclient.analyze. We will embed the image data we've loaded in, and then we're going to tell the algorithm which visual features we want returned. Now there's actually a long list of features. There's captions, you could read, which is OCR, get objects, brands, color, faces, you can get a lot of different features, as well as tags. The ones that have worked successfully for me is read and tags, especially for this particular image. As I mentioned earlier, caption was not available for my region. This will now then call the vision client, and it will return a large response. Let's go ahead and actually show you what that looks like. If we go to the main script, we are going to load in and instantiate the class, instantiate the basic Asian class. We're going to create our text, and this is just a very simple text. What do you see in what I've uploaded? That way, we can really ensure that we're not given any bias, we've not mentioned anything about a TV, and then we're going to execute our AI service. I'll go through this function in more detail, but quickly we are just going to be putting in the content path for our image, and it will route us to where I've put the debug. Let's go ahead and do that. We have now got a response. Let's have a look at what that looks like. Great. It is quite a lot. There is quite a large response. I'm purposely making it bigger to see now. You can see the model version, some metadata, so we know the size of the image, and we've got tag results. It said that it is an indoor with a lot of confidence. It is a computer, or it is a display, or it is a display device, an output device. There's a wall, a flap, and it will display an LED blacklit LCD display. You can see a lot of different tags have been returned with confidence scores. It is very good to see that we've had a successful reading of this, and we're going to now convert all of this into a response that our LLM can understand. The way we have to do it is we need to break down this result. Now that I'm thinking about it, you could convert this result just into text and feed in all of this text directly to our LLM. That is actually a possible thing we could do. Instead, what I've done is I've tried to clean it up. I've got some code that looks for certain outputs in this output, and then it formats them so that it looks a little bit cleaner. Let me show you what that would look like. Now we'll have... We've now got some cleaner inputs and cleaner outputs, bringing most of the most important information together, saying there was no caption, no text, and the tags that were detected. This makes it a little bit easier. Then we run this final statement to join it all together into one big string. It's still smaller than what we had previously. We're going to use that string and send it to our LLM as input. It's sad that I don't have a caption because captions are usually far more detailed and far more accurate, but that's okay. Now that you've got the concept of us executing this function, let me talk about the multimodal request. This is just a higher level function to route to the three of these subfunctions or these different multimodals. It is going to look for what the content type is. If it's an image, and if it's an image, it will analyze the image. Or if it's a file, like an MP3 or a WAV file, it will then run speech-to-text. Or if we've said it's an invoice or a PDF, then it will run analyze document. We're going to use this to route what the document type is to the correct algorithm. We will go back to speech-to-text later and analyze documents later. For now, let's run our code and see what happens. Here we are. We're going to be asking what do you see and what I've uploaded. Then we are going to run this algorithm. We're going to get the text response I'm seeing before you. Most importantly, then the basic agent is going to append this response to the messages and then send those messages to the LLM to get a final response. Let's now run this. Let me clean up my outputs. Okay. Okay. We have analyzed the image with vision. The user message passed the safety check. We are now processing the image with the agent. We've sent now the image to the LLM. Look, this is what it says. The image appears to show an indoor setting with a computer setup. It's almost correct. If we have a look at the image, it's actually a broken TV, but that's the limitation of using tags and not captions. At the same time, it is very hard to tell if this was a TV or a monitor for a computer. It thinks it's a flat panel display monitor or another electronic device. It's letting you know it is not fully sure. The environment looks like it could be an office or work station. It's giving us some details. This is good because it definitely tells us that the LLM does understand based on what we've given it, more than just the user message. It has taken in the contents of the image. If I was working for a bigger organization and not just doing a tutorial, I would be having an entire project to ensure that our multimodal services are working as accurately as possible, getting as much information as possible and as condensed as necessary so that our agents can understand what they are seeing. In this example, it is very basic. Now, let's go ahead and look at the next service. Let's go with the voice recording next. In this demonstration, I'll just uncomment some code and we'll show how it works with a voice recording. Note that I had to use a WAV voice recording. I found a limitation with the Azure AI service in where it has some error messages with MP3 file formats. I had to convert it to WAV. You may potentially want in your application to automatically convert these files to WAV because of the limitation I observed. Now, I've got a voice recording that is here. I'm going to show you how we can load this in and get a text translation for you. Let's have a look at the function. Speech to text. Here, we'll be able to take in audio file paths and return transcribed text. This is important because agents can't hear audio directly. You need this tool to help the agent do that transcription and then give the agent text. That means every time you might be talking to Amazon or to Jumini, Google Home, ChatGPT, or with the voice option, actually, a translation is having to happen. Now, in this case, what we're going to do is we are going to get our audio config set up. We are then going to create the speech recognizer. This is very important because if we're creating speech, we will be using the speech synthesizer, but because we are recognizing speech from an audio file, we are using the speech recognizer. We get the speech recognizer configured and then we are ready to perform the recognition. This will then actually do the translation. Let's put in a debug and see what this looks like. Let's have a look at what the output looks like. It is an object. It is not straightforward to be able to get out. Let's see if we can get... Actually, I take that back. You can see in the output the output of the response. You can see the translation, which is correct. I actually tried to say this is a test of my voice so that we can see if Azure AI can listen to what I've said and transcribe it to text. That's successful. I know because I said that. That means we've successfully been able to transcribe my text using an Azure AI service. Now, let's load all of this into our model. Okay. We are converting speech to text. We've recognized the text. Now we're going to the LLM. The LLM is now processing the message with that input and it can say I can see that you've shared an audio transcription. Great. The LLM has recognized this. It has directly told us what it has listened to. Now it wants to know how it can assist us further. Perfect. Now I've shown not only how our LLMs can read images, but how they can recognize speech. Let's now do document intelligence. Let me comment this out. Let's put this in. Let's have a look at what this PDF looks like that I have generated. Actually, it doesn't work that way. I created on the internet a very simple fake invoice using a free online generator for tutorial purposes only. It's an invoice for a builder. We will see that come through with document intelligence. Let's now go to document intelligence. We are going to then use document intelligence to help us extract structured data from documents. We'll be able to get things like vendor, customer, total amount and date from invoices, receipts. We'll be able to get different information from ID documents like your driver's license or passport. We can get other information. This is important because agents can't read PDFs directly, but this tool helps you get that structured data. Now, we just do a model mapping because there is actually different models available within document intelligence. You've got the invoice model, the receipt model, or the ID document model. There's even more models than that. For this demonstration, that is plenty. What we're going to do is we're going to read in the PDF file with this line of code, and then we are going to send it to document intelligence. We will send it using this document intelligence client, begin analyze documents, and then with the poller, we can get the results. Let's have a look at that. I'm making sure that I have. Yep. Good. Let's run it. Okay. Analyzing the invoice. It's still running. It's still analyzing. It takes a little bit more time to analyze a PDF. Now, let's look at the result. Here we go. We now get a lot of information coming back from our document. A lot of information. Document intelligence can be really good at analyzing structured documents because it's using more than just your standard vision AI behind the scenes. It's very good. You get a lot of information. Now, because of all of this information, I have written a little bit of code to just extract the key details that I'm interested in, such as the vendor name, the customer, the total amount, etc. And for receipts and for ID, also some limited information. That's just because it can take a lot of time to really properly format all of this. But, if you wanted to not worry about tokens, you could convert all of this into one big text response and send it to the LLM to process. Okay. Perfect. Let's now, without you actually having seen that document, let's see what the LLM tells us is in that document. So, let's run the whole script. Okay. We are now running. We are analyzing the invoice, which is real. Azure AI is actually analyzing the invoice. We've checked the user message is safe. Now, the LLM is processing that document, taking the information that we've converted to text. It says, the document you have uploaded appears to be an invoice from Apex Framework and Construction addressed to these people. The total amount is $145 Australian dollars on this date. Perfect. You can now see that the LLM has successfully been able to understand what was in the invoice. So, that's it. Now, you might be realizing that this was a very basic demonstration. We could have potentially allowed the agent to see this as tools. We could have created a tool definition for the three different Azure AI service tools and let the agent decide if it wants to run them. In this case, I tried to show you a basic example of grounding the information directly to the first message. You can really do a lot with these services. I mean, everything else learned about memory, open telemetry, and multi-agent orchestration to really orchestrate a very high quality all-in-one solution. This is yet another tool that you can use in your agents. Okay? Perfect. So, in summary, this script introduced multi-modal integration. Azure AI Vision, helping us analyze images, getting captions or optical character recognition text extraction. Azure AI Speech, that can help us convert speech to text. It also can do text to speech as well. So, we could actually output the result from our LLM directly into speech. And we learned about Azure AI Document Intelligence to help us extract structured data from invoices, receipts, ID documents, etc. Perfect. Thank you so much for watching, and I'll see you in the next unit.