TITLE: Unit 18: Input Transformation – NLP Preprocessing
LENGTH: 19697

Welcome, everyone. In this unit, we're going to extend on the services we learned about, such as vision, speech, and document intelligence, and we're going to be looking at the natural language processing services that Azure offers, and we're going to learn how to use them in conjunction with an agent. So, at the beginning, we need to deploy our resources. Now, I've already gone ahead and deployed them, but let me take you through the Bicep file for what we're deploying today. So, in the Bicep file, it'll be the same resources you are familiar with. It is going to have the foundry, the project, content safety, but then we are also going to load in the language here, or the language, natural language processing services. So, let's look inside the Bicep file. Here we are. Azure AI language service for natural language processing, or NLP. It is going to provide us language detection, ID deduction, NUR, which is natural entity recognition, key phrase extraction, and sentiment analysis. It's actually using almost exactly the same code as what was needed with the prior vision services, speech services, and document intelligence services, which is almost copy and paste exactly the same here. And again, it is going to be at a free tier, so you don't have to pay for it. But remember, you can only have one of these deployed at any one time. So, if you are spinning up and spinning down, you need to ensure that you have deleted the service. If we go to the pie here, I mean to the shell script, we have to delete our entire resource group, and then also delete our cognitive services. Now, actually, this needs to be updated on the pie unit, and it needs to say language. Great. Perfect. So, then by running this line here, that is how you ensure that you can deploy, you can redeploy your service after you've deleted it. Okay. So, now we have got everything ready via Bicep. We are also going to be outputting the language endpoint and the language API key. And then that should be everything we need to connect to our language service. It's quite straightforward to our previous unit. We're just going to be learning about all the different outputs that we can get on this service. Okay. So, now let's go into our Python script. So, what's new in this unit? We're going to learn about Azure AI Language, which is a cloud service that provides natural language processing, or NLP capabilities, such as language detection, pie reduction, entity extraction, key phrase extraction, and sentiment analysis. We're going to learn about all of these today and actually run all of them. For those of you who aren't aware, pie is an acronym for personally identifiable information. And we're going to be learning about pie reduction. So, we're going to be essentially automatically detecting and removing sensitive outliers like credit card numbers, social security numbers, and email addresses from user input before the LLM even sees it. You will see an example of this today. We also have NUR, which is named entity recognition. This is going to involve extracting and tagging entities like people, organizations, dates, and locations in the text. We're also going to do language detection. We're going to identify what the language the user is writing in. And we'll do sentiment analysis, determining if the user's message is positive, negative, or neutral. And we're going to put all of this together into a transformation pipeline, where we're going to start with language detection, then pie reduction, then entity extraction, then key phrase extraction, and then finally sentiment analysis. And we'll be able to use this entire pipeline to enhance what is sent to the LLM. Okay. So now let's go into the JSON file to see what we have exported from our Bicep. Here, we have got the Azure OpenAI endpoint, the large language model name, the content safety endpoint. I've also put in the language endpoint and my language key. Again, I will be deleting my resources after this video, so you won't be able to access my language endpoint. Okay. Let's now continue through the Python script. In this Python script, we need to be loading in the text analytics client, which is new from prior units. And we will be loading in a natural language processing class. So we here have a class, Azure Natural Language Processing Services, and we'll be connecting it with our basic agent. So we will load in all of our environment variables. We will authenticate to our services, including the language client. So we'll get our language client out of the way. Then we're going to instantiate our classes, the content safety class. Most importantly for this unit, the Azure AI Service or the Natural Language Processing Service. We're going to instantiate that. And we will instantiate the basic class, which for this unit, just like before, is just a very basic agent that just runs a user message. Okay. Now, we are going to try and go through some examples with a text that goes through quite a few different things. It'll be going through iRedaction. So we're going to be putting in a fake credit card number to see how our model responds. We're going to be putting in keywords like New York to see how the model reacts. Or an entire sentence and see how the key phrase extraction works. So we're going to be using this message as an example to see how all those different services respond. I think now it's time to go into what the class looks like. So in this class, we have a few different functions. Let me collapse them all. Okay. So at the beginning, we just instantiate our class, and here we put in the reload in the client, and we get one configuration that we're going to need. Then we have at the lowest level one, two, three, four, five different jobs we want done from this language client. We then have a wrapper function that will be calling all of those five services, and then we will be taking the outputs and passing them through this function here. So let's look at the wrapper first. Here the user input will be the user's query. So I want you to think about that we are now building a pipeline to work with any agent project where you can now be able to put in any text, regardless of its context, and enhance it. We are going to start by detecting the language of the text. Then we will identify any personally identifiable information and removing it from that user input. We will also get entities, key phrases, and sentiment analysis in that order, and then all of that is going to be outputted to this pre-processed dictionary. This is important because then we can use that dictionary however we wish for the rest of our code. So that way this class is universal. You might want to do different things with the outputs, so we put it all together in a dictionary. So let's go ahead and look at what the PyDetect language does. I'm going to put in a debug. Actually while I'm here, I'm going to put in a debug into each of the other stages. Put in slightly the wrong spot. There. That way we can very easily see what all the outputs look like. And while I'm here, I'm going to undo it, put in a slightly better response. I'm going to put it in just before the final results are returned. And then we will go through the code. Almost there. I think it's here. Yes. Analyze sentiment. I think it will be here. Okay, great. We will now go ahead and run the code and we're going to see how our code actually what happens in our code at these stages and we'll break down the functions. Okay, let's run our script. So now we're going to be running it, which means we will be going through the content safety service automatically as we do in almost all of our units. Here we go, going through content safety. Okay, great. So now we've already got through. So let's explain it. We need to put off our user input into this particular format for the natural language processing service. And that's because it can actually handle multiple documents at a time. So you might want to be using the language client to do not an agent piece of work, but maybe just some document preprocessing in general where you want to give thousands of documents from your company. Here we only have text, so it's technically only a single document. The way you run it is you get your language client and you do dot detect language. Important because this is the raw line of code that you'll need to know. And then you get a result. Let's have a look at that. Here, the result is telling us to make sure you make this bigger for you to see. You will see the primary language, detected language is English. And also a few more details that are kind of hidden. So let's have a look at what the extracted output looks like. Here you can see English with the ISO name and the confidence score. So this model is 100% confidence it is English. Very interesting. Now you can see that very simply with very minimal work, very minimal lines of code, you can detect language. Let's see what else it can do. Now we have gone to redacting personally identifiable information. I find this one maybe my favorite of all of them. Let me show you what happens. Well, in documents, we have our code wrapped up. And importantly, I mean, our user message wrapped up. Importantly, we've actually put in real credit card numbers. So you might want to build a solution that protects your client from even having their data ever sent to the company hosting the large language model, because you yourself in your code have automatically taken that information away. And you can do that with language client .recognizePy entities. Let's see what the result looks like. Okay. It says it has identified an entity that is Pi. And it's literally got the credit card detail exactly here. If we go to entities, you can see with more detail. It says it has automatically figured out this is the text that has been redacted. It has automatically classified it as a credit card number. So that means this algorithm knows what to do. And it gives a little bit of information along with a confidence score. Now, with a little bit of preprocessing, you can get the redacted text. Let me show you what that looks like. Here. Here we have the transformed user input. What's the weather like in New York next week? Also, my credit card number is this. And it's filled with stars now. This is very powerful. It means now you don't have to worry about the large language model dealing with this. We are automatically replacing credit card details. So this is a very simple but very important trick or technique that you can use to help enhance your agent solution. Now let's go on to the next service. Okay. So now we're dealing with entity extraction. So what does that look like? Well, the result is going to be it has identified an entity called New York. Now I believe there's more entities than New York that's been captured. But New York has what it's captured. If we go to entities in total, there we go. Now we can see New York was categorized. It is categorized as a location with a subcategory of city. It also categorized next week. Now it has given it a category of a date time value with a subcategory of date range. Very interesting. And it's also identified the word credit card calling it a product category with no subcategory. So this is not a large language model we've caught here. This is the Azure AI services which have their own models behind the scenes. And it has done all this extraction for you. Now most likely this is going to be its own deep learning model. But it's not necessarily a large language model. Instead it's a more specialized deep language model specialized in entity extraction. Although you can do entity extraction without a deep language model, it likely is one. Now we can get with a little bit of preprocessing, we can change the text to look like the following. Tagged text. Here we are. Now we've transformed the input to say what's the weather like with this formatting of location, New York, date time next week, product, credit card with the reduction of the credit card number already occurred. So now you can see that we have already gone quite a bit of transformation of the user's original question. I think this output is fantastic. It's such a powerful way to add extra information to the user's input from the user's input before it's passed to a large language model. And it's very cheap to do. It's much cheaper running this service than running a large language model. And it has the potential to improve its accuracy by a meaningful amount. Now let's see what else is available. So now we're looking at key phrases. So what does the result of this look like? Here we've got some key phrases like credit card number, New York, weather. So let's have a look at all the key phrases exactly. Actually that is exactly what they are. Credit card number, New York, weather. So sometimes you can use key phrases to simplify an entire message. And now without really putting it all together, I know this is something to do with credit cards and the weather in New York. So that's a really powerful thing, is key phrase extraction. Okay. Let's look at the next service. Sentiment. There are many applications for sentiment. And in fact, some of the first machine learning applications many years ago, more than 10 years ago, were focused very hard on getting sentiment accurately classified and easily accessible for the wider audiences of the world through cloud deployment. So we've come a long way since then, now that we have large language models. But it's great to see that we still have a very easily accessible sentiment analysis model. If you look at the result, it tells us that the message that we have sent has been classified as neutral. We have a little bit more detail. It says neutral and the confidence is almost 100% or 99% for neutral. So now we have a sentiment and this can be really useful because you can create different workflows. If your confidence has been shown to be negative, you might not even go to a large language model. You might force it to be routed to a human or you might even tell the user to please rewrite their message with not a negative sentiment. You might not want to do that in all situations, but you have this powerful option. Oh, I just realized a small little formatting bug. There we go. Okay, so now we know the sentiment of our text is neutral. Yeah, I've also included a bit of a print statement to say should you escalate if it is negative, but really this is just a print statement and you would need to do a bit more to actually add some logic here. Okay, great. I think that is all the services. Yes, I'm going to stop the whole script. So now let's go ahead and turn off all these debugs. They are going to get in the way. Let's now run the entire script. Let's run it all the way through into our large language model. To do that, we're going to need to look at the last modification steps we've made. We will take in the user input. We're going to check if this content is safe. We're going to build the system instructions through the standard method. Then we're going to run our natural language processing. No point doing natural language processing if content safety is potentially going to block the user message. So only spend money when you have to. Then what we're going to do is do these two post-processing steps or pre-processing steps. We're going to change the user's message to this particular version. We're going to extend the system instructions with some of the other outputs. Let's have a look at what the extension of the system instructions looks like. Here, it's quite a simple piece of code. You don't have to do it the way that I've done it. You can make this a user message instead. But here, we're going to get all the key phrases for the user message and concatenate them together. Then we're going to extend the system instructions. Here's the original system instructions with an extension that I'm highlighting. It's going to explicitly say, use these results for context. Here's the detected language. Here is the user's sentiment. Here are the key topics being discussed. We can also add in extra things, such as sensitive information has been redacted, telling them that entities have been tagged. That way, the large language model knows why we have this particular formatting. We're even saying, if the sentiment is negative, be extra helpful and empathetic, and to respond in the same language as the user used. Adding this on to the system instructions, which we never were able to do previously, but now we can. Okay. Great. Now, I'm going to put in I think we just run the whole script. Now, if I didn't mention this earlier, what I love about all of this is we can improve the quality of our agent's response for cheap. We don't have to spend too much money to run these services, and we get a lot of information outputted, and we improve the quality of our agent. I think it's really, really powerful, and I know you don't technically need to be doing this, and if you wanted to keep your process or your code simple, it totally makes sense to just send your results directly to the agent, but using this natural language processing, you can really improve the quality, especially improve the safety of your output product with the reduction of the PI information. Okay. With that all out of the way, let's run this. Let's run it end-to-end. Okay. We're scanning the user message. It's passed. Okay. Here's the original input. We've detected English. We have detected a credit card number. We have detected three entities. We have detected these particular key phrases. We have detected a neutral sentiment. Now, we have extended the system instructions with this information. We are now preprocessing the message with the agent that has natural language processing. We've now sent the message to the agent, and here we are. Hi, Luke. I can help with your query. However, for security reasons, please avoid sharing your credit card number. As far as the weather in New York, I don't have real-time data, etc. You can see here that maybe from the outside, you have no idea that the large language model even had all this preprocessing has happened, but I can guarantee that we have not sent our credit card details to OpenAI. Okay. Perfect. I think you've seen everything you need to see. The only thing I didn't show was exactly what I was sending to the user message. Let me actually just do that quickly. To run that example, let me show you exactly the message that we sent to the agent. The message we sent was a tagged and redacted version. This one that you can see before you, this was the one that we sent to the agent. You can see it's a lot more different to the original one. The system instructions, it is quite long, but it definitely has, as I can confirm, a natural language processing result, along with all the other information from before. Perfect. Let's now close off this unit. In this script, you've been introduced to input transformation using Azure AI Language. You've learned about language detection, identifying what language the user is writing in. You learned about PI redaction, how to remove sensitive information like credit cards, SNNs, emails with input, named entity extraction, which is tags for people, organizations, dates, locations. You learned about key phrase extraction, identifying the main topics in the user's message. Sentiment analysis, detecting positive, negative, or neutral mood. You learned how you put all of that together into a transformation pipeline. Great. Thank you so much for watching, and I'll see you in the next unit.