TITLE: Unit 19 : Secure Secret Management with Azure Key Vault
LENGTH: 20012

Welcome, everybody. In this unit, we're going to learn how to use Azure Key Vault to help us implement a more secure method of accessing our endpoints using our API keys, et cetera. So to begin with, let's start with deploying our Azure Key Vault. Now, I've already gone ahead and deployed my Azure Key Vault, but let's go ahead and look at the bicep file. There's actually going to be quite a few changes to this bicep file, because we are now using Azure Key Vault. So we're going to extend the last unit, where we are going to still be deploying Content Safety, Azure Foundry, and the Azure NLP Languages Service. But we are also going to be deploying our Azure Key Vault. But because we're using Key Vault, because we're using Key Vault now, we are going to change the outputs of this bicep file significantly. So at the beginning of this bicep file, we will deploy our resources like normal. Our Foundry, our Foundry Service, our Foundry Project. We will deploy our large language model, our Content Safety resource, our language service. Everything will be the same as before. Now, at this point, it's quite simple. We will be deploying our Azure Key Vault. Our Azure Key Vault is going to help us secure all of our secrets. This will be API keys, endpoints, connection strings, et cetera. Now, very importantly, there are two properties in this. The first one is we must enable purge protection. This is a requirement now for Microsoft, which means if you delete your Azure Key Vault, it will actually still exist. And so it is, therefore, you need to do two deletions to delete your Key Vault. Now, I had to do a little bit of work to learn how to delete the Key Vault fully. And let me show you how. In the shell command, you are used to deleting the entire deployment. Now, similar to how you also had to secondarily delete your cognitive services, you also have to delete your Key Vault. Here, I wrote a command that helps you find any of your soft deleted Key Vaults. And then you can use this one to permanently delete the Key Vaults after, and I emphasize after, they have been soft deleted. So you still have to run this command, and then you run this one with the name of your Key Vault and its region to do a full permanent deletion. This is, oh, let me go back to Bicep. This is all because Microsoft forces us now to enable purge protection. Secondly, you've got role-based access control. We are going to ensure that we connect to our Key Vault using a managed identity, and then we have to have the right permissions enabled on our Key Vault to be able to access it. So this has been set to true. There's no point accessing Key Vault in an insecure way, given that this is our secure way of storing all of our sensitive data. So we must access this in the most secure way. Okay. So once we've got your Key Vault deployed, you then need to put your secrets into the Key Vault. Now that's where Bicep can also be helping us. In our Bicep file, we are now going to be taking the outputs that we were previously sending, like the Azure OpenAI endpoint, and putting in that value that we were previously outputting and directly putting it into the Key Vault. So that way, we never actually need to access it directly. It will all be sent directly to Key Vault automatically via the Bicep deployment. So this is a really clever way that we can make sure that our proper secrets are, as quickly as they are created, sent to Key Vault. So here we are, sending the OpenAI endpoint as a secret, sending the large language deployment name, sending the content safety endpoint, sending the language service endpoint, and most importantly, sending the language service API key. This is a very sensitive value that definitely needs to be secured in Azure Key Vault. And then finally, we only need to output the Key Vault details themselves instead of actually outputting any of the secrets, because then, as long as we have the name to the secret, such as language key, language endpoint, content safety endpoint, as long as we know these labels that we have given these secrets, we can then actually just use the Key Vault endpoint to get those for us. So it cleans up the outputs from our Bicep file, and it very securely sends all these values to Azure Key Vault. And the great thing is, with just the one line of code of deploying the Bicep file, all of this is happening. So almost half the work of deploying our resources and securing all our values all happens via Bicep. And then all you have to do is get your Key Vault endpoints. And if I go to my environment variables, we only now have to put in the one environment variable, which is the Key Vault URI or URL. It's much more secure and much less work for you also to do. So then all we have to do next is ensure that we have got the right permissions to access Key Vault and the secrets within it. So this is the extra step that you're going to have to do, is you're going to have to give yourself the right permissions. So here I have, with the lines of code that I've copied, a way to assign yourself the Key Vault secrets user role. That way, you then have access to access the secrets in Key Vault. The way you can do this is you can just get your object ID, copy and paste it where I'm putting in here. And if I scroll over, you will put in the role of Key Vault secrets user. And then all your details like your subscription ID, your hidden, your resort, keeps hiding, your resource group name, and finally the name of your Key Vault. With that done, you now have a CLI command to give yourself the permissions required to get the secrets from Azure Key Vault. So now you've done three quarters of all that needs to be done. We've deployed Key Vault, we've sent secrets to Key Vault, and you've given yourself the permissions to access Key Vault. So you've done three quarters of everything you need to do to work with Azure Key Vault. Now the next step is just reconfiguring your Python file to get those secrets for you. So let's go ahead and look at what that Python script looks like. Well, in this unit, as we've already started, we're going to be dealing with secure secret management with Azure Key Vault. We're going to learn that Key Vault is a cloud service to securely storing and managing secrets, keys, and certificates, eliminating hard-coded credentials from your code. We've learned about Bicep integration, deploying Key Vault and storing secrets directly through infrastructure as code templates during deployment. We've learned about role-based access permissions using Azure role-based access control via CLI to grant fine-grained access to secrets without modifying infrastructure code. You've learned that we will be using a managed identity authentication, or we're going to show it, to connect to a Key Vault using Azure AD identities instead of any hard-coded connection strings or keys. This is really key because why go through all the effort of getting Key Vault to secure all of your endpoints and keys if the way you access Key Vault is also in a very insecure method? You need to be accessing Key Vault via managed identities to make the rest of the pipeline, the rest of the work, even worth it. Because if you don't do that, then in theory, someone could get your connection string to your Key Vault and from the connection string, access all of your secrets, which makes no sense. It's actually better in that situation to have multiple connection strings because then maybe a user might not get access to all of your services. We're also going to implement secret caching. We're going to make sure that we are going to implement an LRU or least used cache to minimize network calls to Key Vault. This will reduce costs to Key Vault. It'll reduce write errors from Key Vault and it'll improve your entire application's performance. We're going to do this with a secret manager pattern or class, which will be a reusable class that will help you handle secret retrieval, caching, and error handling with minimal code changes. Let's have a look. We're going to be using and extending on the last unit, so all the same packages are needed, plus we're going to need the secret client from Key Vault.secrets. Then we'll be adding in a new class called secret manager. Now we only need to access a few of our environment variables, far less than before, and when it comes to authentication, this code here that I'm highlighting is where all the difference is. The rest of this code, as I'll skip over, will look exactly the same as the previous unit. We'll still be instantiating content safety, still instantiating the natural language processing service class, still instantiating a basic agent. All the main script logic is going to be identical. We're still going to be redacting the credit cards, putting in the entities like New York and the date being next week. We're still going to do everything we did from the prior unit. There is no changes to this at all. The only changes are going to be the changes to the authentication part of the code, because the authentication part of the code is when we were previously injecting all of our endpoints and API keys, and this time we're going to be injecting them with the Key Vault as the middleman. So let's go ahead and look at the secret manager before we go into this detail. Okay, let's go into the secret class or the secret manager class. So in the secret manager class, it is actually quite simple. Okay, great. So we are just going to be initialising it by bringing in the secret client. Let's have a look at how we do that very quickly in the main script. In the main script, we will use the default Azure credential to get our credential. This way, we are not using any API keys or connection strings. We're using our managed identity. And then with the secret client that we are getting from the Azure package directly, we put in the Key Vault URL with the credential, no API keys or connection strings, and getting our secret client. And then when we instantiate the secret manager, we are sending in that particular secret client. So if I go back, now we've instantiated. We will also put in a hidden cache to start with. So then we have three functions. We have get secret, get secret without caching, and clear cache. And that's because when we get secrets from Azure Key Vault, there are different rate limits that you will reach. And there's also a cost every time you access Key Vault. Now it's extremely cheap, but when you are running hundreds of thousands of calls to Azure Key Vault, that does add up as a cost. And so you're going to want to be caching where possible to reduce your costs and to reduce any rate limiting errors you may get. So here we have a get secret function that itself calls the get secret without caching function. Let's look at the get secret without caching function as that's the lowest level. Here we run the secret client and we run the very simple command get secret. It's not a complicated line function. You're just doing dot get secret with the name of the secret that you already know how the secret is named. However, to run this particular command, you need to have the right permissions. You need the Key Vault secrets user role. That is what you need in order to be able to access it, which I've done for you, which has been done for you here. Then you will have the permission to get the secrets. This function gets wrapped around the get secrets with a caching. And if I show you, here it is. I was mistaken, actually. This is actually a separate command, but it does essentially the same job and you could actually implement it here, which I think I will. It makes no sense why I wouldn't have done this earlier. So let me do that. Secret equals self dot get secret secret name. Perfect. There we go. Now that's going to do exactly what we want, exactly as I said. So now let's understand what this is doing. It is a function that has been defined to do a cache automatically for us. And it is going to try and see if the secret name is in the cache. If it's in the cache, it will return the cache. So immediate and quick. However, if there is no secret or the secret name is not in the cache, then we're going to get it from the key vault. We will run that function, get secret without caching. We will return our secret and then we will immediately cache it. So that way we don't have to call the key vault again. And then we will return the result. And next time we call the secret manager for the same secret, it'll instead get it from the cache directly. It's quite simple. This is not meant to be a complicated secret manager class. And then there's also the optional step of clearing the cache where you clear the cache, et cetera. So it's quite a simple manager for Zero Key Vault. It's not a complicated thing to do. The hardest part with the Zero Key Vault is deploying it, sending it the secrets and getting the right permissions. Once you've done that, the remaining accessing of the secrets is very easy. So now let's look at the Python script. It's very simple. All we are doing here is we are going to be putting in the open AI endpoint. And instead of putting in the environment variable, we're going to be putting in secret manager dot get secret here. I've done it in this position so that there's an immediate injection of the endpoint into the open AI service instead of storing it as a variable in our code. That way there is no temporary storage. It's immediately called and consumed. This makes it a little bit more secure than if you were to do something like endpoint equals this. It's a little bit less secure doing that. Great. So now you get your endpoint from open AI automatically accessed. Same with content safety. You're getting your endpoint automatically secured. And with our language client, we're putting in our language endpoint. And very importantly, because this one, the other ones earlier are using managed identities to access them. With the language client, we actually were a little bit lazy and we were just using the API key. So now we have found a way to securely use Azure Key Vault to stop that language key from being exposed to the application or to yourselves watching this course. So now we have a language client getting both the endpoint and the secret securely from Key Vault. So now we've done, got everything we need from Azure Key Vault. And then the rest of the code, it runs as normal. Let me quickly show you what this would look like if I was to put in a debug. Okay. So I did a test of running the Python script before this video, and I made a small mistake in the prior script. Let me show you that. Before, when I rewrote this code here, it was secret and then secret.value, whereas the old version of getSecretWithoutCaching was actually returning secret.value. So it was coming up with a double error, an error because I was trying to get the value, but I'd already returned the value. So now I've stopped that. Now we should be good to run the rest of our scripts. So now let's run it. We are going to put a debug here, and we are going to see what we get returned from Azure Key Vault. Okay. Now let's call Azure Key Vault. Okay. Give it a second while it accesses it. Perfect. You can now see the string result from Azure Key Vault. So you can see here that we've been able to access Azure Key Vault directly. And then we can get all of our different secrets. We can include in get, which you should know, And then we can get all of our different secrets. We can include in get, which you should never actually do, but for this course, because I'll delete it, I don't mind, I will show you the language key. You can now see the language key has been returned. Perfect. Okay. Great. Just to prove to you this will work, let me run the full script end to end. You shouldn't notice anything different from the last unit, other than the fact that you know it is being, the application is a little bit more secure than last time. Okay. We'll let it run. Actually, I'll make this bigger. Okay. We are scanning the user message. Perfect. We've got all of our results. We scan the user message, which means definitely all the authentication and the accessing of a zero key vault went successfully. We took in the original input. We did a whole bunch of natural language processing. We ended up getting our basic agent to read the pre-processed or the pre-processed user message. We got an output from our agent, and it's saying the weather forecast, recommend checking a particular app. As far as security, please avoid sharing your credit card number. Perfect. A fully working end to end solution that is a lot more secure. So let's now summarize. In this script, you've been introduced to secure secret management with a zero key vault. You learned about key vault deployment, deploying it via Bicep and storing the secrets all during the Bicep deployment. You learned about role-based access control missions, granting the key vault secret users role using Azure CLI. You learned how to use a managed identity to authenticate to a zero key vault instead of using a connection string. You learned about a secret manager class to help you retrieve secrets using occasion, and you learned how you can use this method to very simply migrate an old script to a new script without changing any of the core logic just by implementing key vault in the beginning during the authentication stage. Furthermore, I want to say that this is probably a level two level security. Level one being connection strings and API keys directly. Level two is using key vault to store all of those API keys. Level three is when you don't even need the API keys at all because you're using a managed identity. So we have shown you a level two of security here, but if you want to be more secure, we would not be accessing the natural language processing service with Azure key vault API keys. You would instead use a managed identity. However, if you are using everything as managed identities, you still might want to secure all of your end points using Azure key vault. Perfect. Thank you so much for listening and I'll see you in the next unit. I want to make an extension to the last video because there are some complications I observed with deleting the key vault. Look at the commands above. Here, I can find a list of all of my key vaults after I have deleted my resources. We'll give it a second to run and you'll see our key vault that is still existing. Existing in a soft deleted state. Here we go. We get some details. I scroll up, you will see the name of the key vault with some details. You will see here the deletion date. This is exactly when I soft deleted it, but you will see that the purge protection is enabled, which we did when we deployed the resource and you'll see a scheduled purge date. It is actually different to the deletion date. It is seven days later. This is very important because of the next problem I observed. I tried to do a manual purging to force the deletion to occur and I got this error message. Method not allowed. Operation deleted vault purge is not allowed. You are no longer able to delete your soft deleted key vaults. Instead, you have to wait until the scheduled purge date has occurred. You can run this CLI command here to get the same information that we got when we ran this earlier. It tells us exactly when the purging is going to occur. There's no need to worry about this because there are no costs that will occur. But if you try to redeploy the same key vault with the same name exactly as I put in here, you might get some error messages. So please keep this in mind. But other than that, no need to worry. If you have run the command, delete the entire deployment, there'll be no more costs. And if you wait a week, you will find it's fully deleted from Azure. There you go, little extension to the previous video. Thank you so much for listening and I'll see you in the next unit.