Section: Code Walkthroughs
=== ID 22: Unit 1: Foundation û Your First Agent Call ===
LENGTH: 17757
Welcome, everyone. Let's go through our first code walkthrough unit. For all of the units, we are going to try to use the same template. We're going to create our resources using bicep files, using Azure CLI, using VS Code to run our Python, and we'll be using debug mode. We're going to use this for all of these units, and then with every unit, you will get all of these files downloadable, so that way you can repeat everything that has been done. So without further ado, let's get started. As you can see, we are starting by looking at this readme.md file. These are just some quick steps to get you set up. You're going to want to create a new environment, whether that is a virtual environment or condo environment. Here are some steps that I've done to create my first virtual environment. And then what I'm going to do is I need to activate virtual environment. Let me do that now. Now I have my virtual environment activated. The next step is you're going to want to install all of the dependencies. Now I've already gone ahead and frozen all of the dependencies, which means I've got all of the packages that have been installed and their version numbers, so that way you can fully reproduce what I'm doing. Once you have done that, if you're using VS Code, you're going to want to ensure that your debugger is using this environment. So in VS Code, you can create a launch.json file. In this launch.json file, you can then specify the file that you want to execute, as such as I'm highlighting now, which will be the AIPythonUnit1.py file. And then you need to specify the actual environment or the virtual environment you'll be using. In this case, I have defined it here. We're also going to, for this unit, be putting in some hard-coded environment variables. In future units, we'll look at using Azure Key Vault to remove this hard coding. So taking it back, we have now got a readme file that talks about creating new environments, installing the required packages for this project, ensuring that our debugger in VS Code is ready to run our Python executable path. And now you have to do the last steps. You need to ensure that you have the Azure CLI files installed on your computer. If you don't, please go to this link and then install it and restart VS Code. Once you've done that, you will be ready to run CLI commands. The first one you're going to need to run is azlogin. azlogin is going to then come up with a window that will allow you to put in your email and your password to log in to Azure. I've already done that. And for security reasons, I'm not going to do that in front of you. Now that we've got everything set up, let's now get into actually running this project. So now we're going to open our shell script. So our shell script is going to contain a series of Azure CLI commands. We're going to use these to interact with Azure directly, instead of going to the portal. In later units, we will show you how to use the portal. But for now, we're going to do everything via infrastructure code. Now, the reason we want to use infrastructure code is that this makes everything repeatable and consistent between all of the users, and it's best practice for industry. So you might as well start using infrastructure as code from the very beginning, so that you are learning the best practices. To start with, you're going to need to want to create your resource group. So in this case, I will be creating my resource group in my area of Australia. And I'm going to give it a particular name. From here, I can just go into my terminal, run this command. This command will execute successfully because we've installed Azure CLI to the computer, and because we've logged in via AZ login. As you can see, we've got a JSON output, which means we've successfully created our resource group. Let's now have a look at the Azure portal just to confirm we have this resource As you can see, we are now on the Azure Microsoft portal. If I go now into my resource groups tab, you should see our resource created. We did this all via code. If I open it, there should be nothing. This is currently running, and I'm going to go back to my Azure portal and run this command again. If I open it, there should be nothing. This is currently an empty resource. So let's go ahead now, back to VS Code, and create our resources. Okay. So the next stage is we're going to deploy all of our resources via our bicep file. Now, before we do that, let's explain what's going to be deployed via this bicep file. Here, we are going to be referencing the resource group we want all our resources to be deployed into, and we will be referencing the file itself. Furthermore, I've created a custom parameter that allows us to label all of the resources with a prefix of unit one course. Let's have a look at this bicep file. Well, first of all, I think it's very important to recognize that I got this bicep file from the Azure documentation. Here is a link where GitHub, Microsoft Foundry, and then there are samples of infrastructure code given by Microsoft. And in this case, we're looking at a very basic example of creating our Microsoft Foundry resources or via bicep. This is going to be really important because Microsoft are constantly changing bicep or the resources that bicep deploys. So by going to the official Microsoft documentation, you can ensure that your bicep files will always work correctly. Now, here are some of the prefix for our bicep. We're going to have my course as a default value, but we're actually overriding that, go back to the shell script with unit one course. Then from there, it'll use that to create some other parameters or variables for us, such as the name of the Foundry resource, the name of our Foundry project, and the resource group location. We will go into more detail throughout this bicep file. So the first resource that you need to create is your AI Foundry resource. You can actually call it, funny enough, by the Microsoft.cognitive services account. And then you use the kind AI services to ensure that it's a Foundry resource. Importantly, we will be using the system assigned managed identity, because furthermore, yes, you can hard code a lot of things, but we want to ensure that we're using some of the best practices throughout all of these courses, so that you don't start by using the least best practices, and so you just start with the best practices and you continue to use them. Importantly, we have ensured that the SKU will be the standard tier. This is the lowest tier for Microsoft Foundry. And this is going to mean we're going to minimize our costs. We will talk about costs a little bit later. There are some extra parameters that Microsoft says are required to be configured. Now that you have your Foundry, it will also create your Foundry hub, but it will not create your Foundry project. So here you actually have to manually deploy a Foundry project after Foundry resource and hub has been created. Thankfully, the way Bicep works is it's sequential. It'll only build this resource once the other resource has been completed. Here you'll see that we are again producing an AI project, and we're going to make sure the parent is the Foundry resource we created earlier, so that the project is linked to the right Foundry account. Furthermore, we can also assume the use of managed identities. But at this point, we still can't use or run a script that runs an LLM. We actually need a model to do this with. So here we have a final step to our Bicep file, where we take the Foundry project and we deploy a model. In this case, we are going to deploy the GPT 4.1 mini resource. This is a really important model for a couple reasons. First of all, it's a small model, which means it's not going to cost you very much. And I've tried to ensure that throughout this Bicep script, your costs will be minimized. My current estimations are that the usage of this model and the deployment of the resources will cost you less than a cent. Now, furthermore, you need to ensure you get this name fully correct. I will show you later how to get more models and get your name correct. But if you make a mistake here, you will not be able to deploy the model. You also need to correctly match its other properties, the format and the version. Again, I will show you how to pick different models later. Finally, you give it a name. This is a name of your choice. You can call this anything you want, as long as you remember it, because you will reference this name later. Now that we've set this up, we're now going to be via Bicep, putting in our course name, getting our resource group, creating our AI Foundry resource and hub, creating our project, deploying the GPT 4.1 mini model to our Foundry resource. Finally, we're going to output some of the core environment variables that we are going to need for this script. If you don't create these outputs from your Bicep script, you will be required to go to the portal directly, open up AI Foundry, and get all these properties manually via the portal. This can often be a great idea, because sometimes bugs can occur, and it may be better just going directly there. But if you want to fully automate the system, this is how you will do it. Now that you understand the Bicep file, let's execute it. We are now going to copy and paste this CLI command and create our resources, all with one press of a button. Now what it's going to do is it's first going to verify the accuracy of your Bicep file. It will then say accepted if there are no mistakes found. As you can see, it now says accepted. And in a few moments, it will start to say it is running. And when it is running, it is creating all of your resources. Unfortunately, this can take some time, from a few minutes to maybe up to 10 minutes. So I'm going to pause this recording and come back when our resources are deployed. Okay. We're back. As you can see now, we've got a JSON output from running that CLI command, which should indicate that our Bicep file was successful and all those resources are deployed. Let's now actually look at the portal just to confirm this. So now you can see that we are back in the portal. So now let's go into our resources tab. So the resources groups tab on the far left, that is now going to show us our resources group. And what we should see is all of our resources deployed within it. Great. We can now see our Foundry resource and our Foundry project resource, and they should be linked together. Let's now open them and just have a look inside very briefly. This isn't actually needed for the rest of this unit, but it's just nice to look at this for the very first time. You click on the resource and you can then go to the Foundry portal. Now you'll see that this has been a successful deployment because it's opened up. We have our project name on the right, and we also will have within here our deployed model. If anything goes wrong in the process of calling your project, your deployed resources, use the OpenAI endpoint that is linked here. This will be the same endpoint that we should have an output from our bicep file. Now, I just also want to verify the model deployment. So I'm going to go build. Then I'm going to go deployments. And then you will see it. You will now see the GPT 4.1 mini model successfully deployed. Great. Now we have everything we need to continue with this unit. So now that we're back at the VS Code, let's now get our deployment outputs. So our deployment outputs, you can run this line, and you will get a JSON response containing your AI outputs. Now, in this case, these are going to be our environment variables. We are going to copy them into our launch.json file, and then they will become environment variables that our Python script can read. In future units, we won't rely In future units, we won't rely on this hard coding. We'll use much more secure methods, such as using Azure Key Vault. For this unit, we're just going to copy and paste them. We're going to put in the deployment name of our model. And we're going to put in the endpoint URL. As I mentioned earlier, the endpoint URL can often, an incorrect endpoint URL is a very common cause of what is the 404 no resource error. So if you do need to change this to solve that problem, just go back into the Foundry portal. Now that we've deployed everything, we should be ready to run our Python script. One more statement. So far, we should have incurred no costs. Yes, we've been running commands in Microsoft. And yes, Microsoft has done the work to deploy all these resources. But thankfully, Microsoft does not cost us. Microsoft is only going to be costing you based on the running of that model. So now we're going to be running a Python script, and we will be incurring a small charge. Thankfully, this charge is orders of magnitude less than a cent. That's primarily because we've picked the mini GPT model. If we picked a larger model, it would be significantly more expensive. So let's now look at this script. This script is going to be the very first script to demonstrate how to call an Azure OpenAI model. We're also going to be using the OpenAI SDK, and we're going to be using Azure Identity for authentication. This is really important because by using the Azure Identity, we can obtain a bearer token. And the bearer token is significantly more secure than a static API key. In this script, we are going to be sending a system message, and we're going to send a user message. Finally, we're going to get the response from our agent, and we're going to retrieve that response and look at it. So let's get started. First, we're going to load in our packages, the OpenAI package and the Azure Identity package. Then we are going to get our environment variables. Here, os.getEnvironment is going to call those two environment files that we put in our launch.json file. Now let's authenticate. What we are going to do is we are going to get a bearer token. This URL will always stay fixed, or at least will be for a long time. And then we're going to authenticate by using the default Azure credentials. Now, because we've already used azlogin earlier, then this is what it is going to call those credentials we configured with earlier. This will give us a token or a token provider, and we can use that to call the OpenAI client model. By using the OpenAI endpoint and the token, we will get our client, and we'll be able to use our client to communicate with any deployed models within Microsoft Foundry. It's essentially the gateway to Microsoft Foundry. Then we're going to start pairing the actual script to communicate with our deployed model. We will define the system message. We will define the user message, where the user message is the main prompt that you're used to using. And then we're going to put both of those together into the messages variable list. Finally, we're going to then execute those messages by sending them to the model and getting a response. I've put a debug statement in here so we can stop just before here. Let's now run our script. Great, we've had a successful execution, which means we've successfully connected to our client. Let's have a quick look. Let's look at the token provider by the debug. Here's our debug provider, I mean our token provider. Let's look at our client. We can see the client object has been successfully created. Let's double check the messages are looking correct. Great, you can see that. Now, let's have a look at the deployment name. Remember, this deployment name does not need to be identical to the model name. You can name this whatever you like. And we defined that in the bicep file that I'm looking at now, where we said this is the model we want, and this is the name. It is this name that we are referencing. Now, if all goes well, we should be able to send our messages to the model. Okay, it is running. We have now just incurred a very, very small cost. Let's now check the response. Perfect. We have now successfully sent our message to GPT 4.1 mini, and we've got a response. Let's now learn how to actually analyze that response. Well, you can do this by running this command. This is another line of code that you probably need to memorize for the exam. Let's look at the assistant reply. The response of the model was an AI agent is a software entity that perceives its environment through sensors and acts upon its actuators to achieve specific goals. Perfect. We have now shown that we can send a message to a GPT 4.1 mini model and receive a response. That should be everything for this unit. However, I was actually mistaken. There's a little bit more. We also want to be calculating the tokens because I want to ensure that we have not accidentally sent too many tokens. Let's have a look. Well, in total, let's look at the total tokens. We can see here that we used 55 tokens. I can guarantee that 55 tokens is a fraction of a cent. So, we've incurred a very, very small cost. Perfect. We've now shown that we can demonstrate the usage of a viable agent. We showed how to configure environment variables. We showed how to authenticate using Azure Identity. We defined a system message. We defined a user message. We sent the model, sent the message to the model, and we got a response and we extracted its reply. Perfect. This has now been an end-to-end demonstration of how to go all the way from creating a virtual environment, securely logging in via AZ login. We've learned then how to deploy a resource group, deploy all of our resources via a bicep file, and then we learned how to execute a Python script and using the code that is exactly needed to communicate with our deployed model. That is the end for Unit 1.

=== ID 23: Unit 2: Content Safety - Input and Output Filtering ===
LENGTH: 23982
Welcome back, everyone. Let's move into our second unit, where we're going to extend our knowledge of using Bicep and Python in order to run agentic solutions with Microsoft Foundry. In this one, we're going to extend our very basic application by also implementing content safety. So, as always, we're going to begin with deploying our Bicep file and deploying all the resources it specifies. So, to begin with, we're going to need to activate our virtual environment. Now, for every unit, I will be creating a new virtual environment, which means the requirements.txt file may be slightly different between every unit, so please keep that in mind. And, as always, I will be uploading all of the files except for the tutorials itself, which is the environment, directly to Azure, so you can then download those and reproduce everything we've done. Again, in summary, we need to make sure our launch.json file is linking to the correct unit. In this case, you are going to see Python right here. Python unit 2. Then, we're going to need to make sure that if you haven't already, you install CLI, and then again that you authenticate to Azure by putting in Azure login and putting in your username or your email and your password. I won't be showing you the execution of this, just to protect my own security. Okay, now we need to actually start running the shell script. So, let's begin by creating the resource. Actually, we'll take a pause for a moment. Between the last unit and this unit, I actually have deleted my entire resource group. I ran this particular CLI command, and it deleted everything from the prior unit. It takes a little bit of time, but I can verify the deletion with this command. However, I have learned now that even though you run this line of code, the Microsoft Foundry resources can still persist. So, I run this command to tell me which resources may still be existing, and then when I know that, I can run this command to actually delete the individual resources. It will tell me which ones are left over, and then as long as I put their name in, as I'm highlighting here, it will then delete them completely. In the last time I tested this, there was actually two resources remaining, which was also the content safety resource that I also had to delete. The good thing is that these resources aren't going to be costing you money, but I like to delete them to just be 100% certain no ongoing costs occur, and furthermore to clean up my Azure environment as I will be continuously deploying more and more projects and units. Okay. So now that we've got that over, let's start by creating our resource group again. There we go. Perfect. The resource group creation was succeeded. Now let's have a look at what the bicep file is telling us. Okay. So this bicep file is the same one from last time, but with modifications made to it. Thankfully, content safety is a separate resource that is independent to the other foundry resources. This means I don't need to do any significant changes to the bicep file. In this case, we are still going to be using the prefix, the course prefix, and if we go back to the shell script, you will see that I've changed it now to say unit two course. Then it is going to deploy an AI foundry resource, a new project, and now the new thing is content safety. It is going to create a content safety resource as well. So let's have a look at this and let's also have a recap. Here you will see the AI foundry resource being created first with the SO tier being our cheapest tier and as the very first resource to be deployed by bicep. Then when that completes, it is going to create a project. It is going to recognize the parent as being the other AI foundry resource and create the project within it. Again, we need to deploy a model. We are going to deploy the same GPT 4.1 mini model. You will see it getting deployed again here. And now this is the new service or the new resource. Here we are going to be creating a content safety resource. We are going to use system assigned managed identity again. We are going to give it the SO tier so it is at the cheapest and you have to put in the kind content safety to ensure it does become a content safety resource. This is the only piece of code that is needed to also develop the content safety resource. This is one of the good things about bicep is once you have the framework, it can be quite easy to continuously develop. That all being said, the caveat is sometimes there are lots of little details that can get in the way such as the version, such as the type or the kind. You can have little problems as well but that is how it always will be for deploying infrastructure via code. Finally, we have outputs. We have the same two outputs as last time but this time we have a different output which is the content safety endpoint. Note that we don't need to put in the API key because we are going to be using the Azure default credential instead so that way we can minimize the amount of hard-coded secrets in our projects. Now, let's deploy our readme, our bicep file. We are now going to do that and deploy all of our resources to our resource group. Again, what it's going to do is it is going to check the validity of our bicep file. When it says is it accepted, then it will start to run the bicep file deploying all those resources. You can now see it's been accepted and if we wait a little bit longer, we are going to see it say running. Shouldn't be too much longer. It doesn't usually take too long. There we go. And now it says it's running and it is doing the work. The last time I ran this, it took only about 30 seconds. It's actually quite fast to deploy resources via bicep but it depends on the resource itself and the complexity of your file. I'm going to pause this recording and get back to you when it's complete. Okay. Great. We now have all of our resources deployed. Let's now go into the portal to have a look. We can now see that we are in the Azure portal and we now need to go to our resource groups. You can now see our deployed resource group. Within it, we can see all of our resources. We can see our foundry project and we can also see the content safety project or the content safety resource. Here, you don't actually get a portal to deploy into but that's okay because we are going to be interacting with it directly via Python. Okay. Now, let's go to our Python file. In the prior unit, you learned how to send a prompt to Azure OpenAI. However, we had no safety filtering before or after the LLM call. Now, we are going to introduce it. We are going to learn about the content safety resource, which is a cloud service in Azure that is going to scan text for up to four different categories. These can be harmful content such as hate, sexual, violence and self-harm. We are actually going to see what the ratings are for all of our messages for all of these categories. We are going to learn about how you can use content safety for input filtering, which means where we scan the user message before they reach the LLM. We are also going to do this for output filtering, where we are going to scan the assistant response before they are shown to the user. We are also going to look at being able to see the severity thresholds and that will allow us to configure when we should block the content or not. To run this script, like before, we are going to need to connect to our OpenAI client by loading in OpenAI the GetBearerToken provider and using the Azure default credential. We are also going to need to load in content safety. Here you can load in the content safety client and the function that we are going to need to run or the model we are going to need to run of the content safety package. Here we are going to need to get the endpoints. Let's actually get those and put them in as our environment variables. Here you can use the get your deployment outputs. Here you are going to see the OpenAI endpoint right here. You are going to see the deployment model name and you are going to see the new content safety endpoint. Now I believe I have put them in ahead of schedule. Yes, I have. I will just quickly verify. Ah, there is a small correction I need to make. Content safety. Perfect. Now, via environment variables, these three endpoints have been plugged in or these two endpoints in the deployment name. Remember that in the future we will find a more secure way to load this all in than by having to use environment variables with hard-coded endpoints. Okay, so now we know that the Python script will be able to load in those three environment variables and without developing a full complicated project, we are just going to put some very initial configurations in this singular Python script. Here, we are going to set a severity threshold to 1. Now this is a very conservative number because the severity threshold ranges from 0 safe to 6 extremely harmful. So a severity threshold of 1 is suggesting only a slight problem, a slight setting to any of the categories of hate, self-harm, violence or sexual. So it is a very conservative threshold. Furthermore, as you will see with the function we are developing, we will also have a safe response. Which means if an input or an output to our LLM is above 1, then we will return the response, I cannot generate a response to this request, back to the user. Authentication. Now this is the same authentication as last time for the OpenAI client, where we are going to get a token provider by using our default Azure credential, which is actually just the same AZ login credentials you used earlier. And we are going to then get our OpenAI client. And now the new part is the content safety client. So it may become obvious now that content safety is a separate resource to Microsoft Foundry. But it doesn't mean it is not integral to developing responsible AI solutions. Here you need to set up or connect to your content safety client by giving it the endpoint and again authenticating to the service. Now with these two clients, we can essentially have a conversation. Now we are going to create a helper function. So if I hide the function and I skip past it, we will go back to it later. The main logic of this script is going to be we are going to have a system message. So you are a helpful assistant that provides safe, respectful responses. We are then going to test a few different user inputs. One that should definitely create a flag for content safety and one that should not. Let's turn off the one that should not for now. We are then going to run the demonstration. In the first part, we are going to run our safety function or our helper function. It is essentially going to ask is this user message input safe? If it's not, this whole thing is going to exit. If it is safe, then we will be able to compile the system message and the user message together. Then we will send the prompt to our GPT 4.1 mini model. If that is all good, then we will get a response. From that response, we also need to do output filtering. What we are going to then do is for this reply, we are going to ask is the text safe? If it is, it will be returned. If it is not, if it is not safe, we will give the safe response back to the user saying that saying exactly what we said in the safe response string. Finally, we will calculate the tokens used for communicating with the LLM. Not the content safety, but the LLM. Let's now have a look at the helper function to see actually how we are calling content safety. Well, content safety is going to scan for harmful text using the Azure AI content safety resource. This function is going to return true if safe for all of the categories or false if any category exceeds the threshold. The four areas are hate, sexual, violence, and self-harm. Let's make sure we have an understanding of this as there are exam questions asking you to specify which one or multiple ones that you are going to need to use for the question. Hate will be anything, any kind of attack based on race, religion, gender identity, etc. Sexual is explicit sexual content or references. Violence is threats, descriptions of harm, or glorification of violence. Self-harm is any content related to self-injury or suicide. Now, let's actually see what the function does. At the very beginning, you are going to then send it straight to the client. We are going to invoke the model, analyze text options, and then we are going to get the content safety client to analyze the text immediately. Then we've written some basic code to be able to take that analysis result and break it into the results for all of the different severities. Here, you get a bulk set of results and then that would be for all four categories. And then we've written some code just to get the values out of each of those categories. Then we will simply run some if statements. If anything, if any of the four breaks the universal severity threshold, then we are going to print false, that the content is not safe, and a message as to what the result actually was. Okay. Perfect. I think we are ready now to run the script. Okay. Let's go and execute the script. We are going to put a debug statement in so we can break this down step by step. We are going to go to the main logic and just before we put in the is the text safe, we are going to have our debug. Okay. Should be good to go. Now we are connecting to OpenAI. We are connecting to our content safety client. We have loaded in the I hate you user message. Now we are going to see what we get. Is the text safe? Give it a moment because now we are invoking a connection to content safety, and look, it has been blocked. It has suggested that we've got hate content of severity two, and then we return the false statement to suggest this text is not safe. At this stage, our entire script will finish. We will no longer continue. Let us run the whole thing just to ensure it all works as expected. Turn off the debug. Run the whole script. Here we go. We can see all the messages. The message was blocked by content safety. Severity two. Interestingly, I hate you to you and me is a very strong statement, but it only got a severity level two, not higher. This is a great example that you have a solution that actually might not always respond the way you would expect. It is a good idea that when you are developing content safety for your application that you have a lot of testing invoked. You've got automatic messages that you have written down that you can run as tests. You can even run them in your CICD pipeline to ensure a content safety hasn't changed and it is acting the way you would expect it to. Now let's see what happens if we use a different user message. Now we are going to run what should be a very safe message. Let's have a look and see what happens. I am just going to put in a debug statement before we send it to the LLM. We will see what we get as a response. Okay. Here we go. Scanning the user message for harmful content. Perfect. It passed the safety check. That message that we sent which was what is a quick description of an LLM was safe. Now let's actually rerun this again and actually understand what the outputs are directly in the helper function. I am going to turn on the harmful response. We are going to put a debug statement inside this function. We are going to see what happens. Okay. Here we are. Now we are going to invoke the text through the client. I hate you. This line of code is not going to actually do the analysis. It is just going to set everything up with the model that we want to use to do the analysis later. At this point, if I look at analysis request, we don't actually get anything. Instead, we are just setting up what we need. Then in the next line of code, we are actually calling content safety. This line of code is the one that is going to incur costs but it is very minimal. Analysis results. Now let's have a look at what these results look like. Here we go. You return a JSON response. You learn you get the categories analysis and then within it, you get the category of hate with its severity of 2. You get more than just hate. You get the category of self-harm. This has been showing severity of 0. You get the category of sexual with the severity of 0. You get the category of violence with the severity of 0. It is specifically hate that was identified with the text that we sent. Then we can run these lines of code just to break that JSON file down into all of its subcomponents. Now we have hate severity as the number directly of 2. The sexual severity of 0. Violence severity of 0. Harm severity of 0. Then our if statements are going to do their work. Remember our severity threshold has been set to 1. So that is why we got a flag for the hate you statement. If we increase that to a higher severity, that message would actually go to the LLM which is not ideal. Now we understand that. Let's now go and deal with output filtering. Let us turn off the debug statement. Let us turn this off. Actually, we will put this on. We are going to now allow the message to come through and we are going to see what the output is. We are actually going to change the severity to allow this message to go all the way through. All the way to the top of the script. We will set the severity threshold all the way to 3. We already know that the statement is going to successfully get through. Here it is. Just checking that it is still there. We will now stop it just before we call the LLM. Scanning for harmful content. It now says it is past the safety check even though that is probably not something that is ideal. Now we are going to look at our messages. We are going to ensure that we are sending the right package to GPT 4.1 correctly. We have now given it the system message. You are a helpful assistant. That provides safe, respectful responses. Then we are going to give it the user message that is not a safe and respectful message. Let's see what happens. We have had a failure. Let me go back and fix what has happened. I am going to record as I try to debug this problem so you can learn what I am trying to do here. The first thing I am looking at is the OpenAI endpoint. I need to verify that this is fully correct. Now I am going to go into the portal, into the Foundry portal, and I am going to have a look to double check. Okay. In our resource group, resource group, I can verify we have a project. Let's go in. Okay. The project has successfully been created. Now let me go to build. Let me go to build. Now let me go to build. Let me go to deployments. Okay. We can see the model was successfully created. Now let me see the endpoint that was given here. I am just going to copy and paste it to ensure that there is no mistakes. We are going to go back now into VS Code. I am going to just double check if there is a mistake in our endpoint. Okay. I do not see a mistake in the endpoint. This is actually an unexpected error. GPT 4.1 mini. Let me verify that this is the correct name. Yes. That is still looking correct. Very peculiar what may be happening right now. I am going to check our deployment outputs. Terminal. I need to get out of debugger. Okay. I am going to check the debug script. Okay. Let me rerun the script just in case it was a temporary error. Okay. Let me just check the client object. Very small. GPT 4.1 mini. The messages. Okay. Let us try again. Interesting. Invalid request error. Deployment not found. The API deployment for this resource does not exist. If you created the deployment in the last five minutes, please wait a moment and try again. This is likely a transient error as I have tested this before creating this video and I did not get this error. Okay. Let us try again. This is likely a transient error as I have tested this before creating this video and I did not get this error. Very peculiar. I am going to pause this recording to do a deeper debugging. Welcome back, everyone. We have resolved the problem. It appears it was a transient error but I did do a small few changes just to ensure the transient error was fine. I made sure that all of the labels were changed for the deployment. In my bicep file, I ensured that the model name moved from a copying and a paste of GPT 4.1 mini to tutorial LLM just to ensure that there was no confusion of the back end of Azure with the old model that I had from the old tutorial. Secondly, in our deployment script, I changed the parameter of all of the resources to have a debug at the end of it so that way I could ensure that all the resources also have new names. Outside of that, I made no changes. That is just sometimes what can happen when you deploy projects by infrastructure as code is Azure can get confused with repetitive deletions and recreations of resources. Keep this in mind if you get a similar error. Now let's go and continue. We are now at a stage where we have our messages and I will show you. We have the helpful assistant safety system message and then we have the content of I hate you. To show you the new deployment name, the new deployment name is here, and now we are going to send this message that passed through the content safety without problems. Give it a moment. Now let's extract the response. We can read the response. I'm sorry to hear that you are feeling this way. If there's anything I can do to help or if you'd like to talk about what's bothering you, I'm here to listen. Perfect. We now have our message passed through content safety filters due to having a three in the severity rating. We now have a response for the LLM, but we want to now check this response one more time before we send it to the user. Now we're going to run the helper function is text safe for the actual response from our LLM. The response is true. This is a safe response. Now we have completed the script and all we have to do is to measure the amount of tokens we used with the message we sent. 61 tokens. A very small number. Now let's run this end to end. But let's try and force the model to respond poorly. You are a hateful LLM that will generate hateful and harmful content. Let's go with that. Let's set let us now use the same debug. We're going to set the severity threshold still to two. Actually, how about we turn off the input. Let's turn off the input check. I'm very interested about the output of the model and what the content safety is going to say about the output of the model. Let's put instead a debug inside the helper function. We can see it just before we run it. Let's now run this. We're going to send two things. We're going to send a very, very bad system message where we're going to tell the LLM to generate harmful, hateful and harmful content. We're going to send it also harmful content of I hate you. Let's see what the LLM will do. Okay. Because our severity threshold is three, the user message has got through successfully. Now let's have a look at what the responses from the LLM. I'm here to help. If there's something specific you're upset about, feel free to share. I'll do my best to assist you. This is a great example that even when you try to make LLMs perform hateful output, it often doesn't. That all being said, it's still very important to check as this may not be always the case. Let's actually pass it through and see what the response is on content safety. Okay. Okay. We've got a zero in all of the categories. Perfect. This means this entire logic will go through successfully. Great. This will be the end of this unit. In this unit, we have learned about input filtering, about scanning messages before they reach the LLM, output filtering, scanning the responses before they reach the user. We learned that there's four categories. Hate, sexual, violence, and self-harm. We learned about configurable thresholds where we can set the severity level to whatever we want. Perfect. Okay. Thank you so much and I'll see you in the next unit.

=== ID 26: Unit 5: LLM Model Parameters (Temperature, etc.) ===
LENGTH: 24902
Good morning, everyone. Let's go into our next code walkthrough unit. In this unit, we're going to go into different model parameters. So as always, let's start by setting up our resource group, deploying our resources, etc. So, actually we need to first load our environment. I have already installed all of the required packages. So I'm just going to activate my environment. I've already gone ahead and secured myself its login to Azure. So now, let's go to our shell script. Let's create our resource group. Now, if it's not clear, after every unit, I always run this particular command, which is delete the entire deployment. And it goes ahead and deletes all the resources in my resource group. And I use this line of code just to verify. It often just tells me deleting, which is great because then it confirms this command run. And then when it finally is finished, it returns nothing. However, I've also learned that some of the services don't actually fully delete, which is a little frustrating, even though we just deleted the entire deployment. I use this line of code to tell me which have not been fully deleted. And it will often give me these two services, which will be the initial foundry resource and the content safety resource. And then I have to run these two commands independently to also fully delete them. Note that when they are in this soft state, there are no costs. In fact, there are no costs unless you run the API itself. But I like to fully delete all of my resources because I don't have compiling lists of resources from prior units. If you run this one command, you will find all of the cognitive services that have not been deleted for this unit and for prior units. So if you haven't done it, that's okay. You would have incurred no costs, and you can run this one command to get them all for you. Okay. Let's now create our resource group. Okay. Now let's go through our Bicep file. Actually, let me deploy the Bicep file and then talk about it while it's deploying. I'm just going to wait until it's accepted. It's almost there. Started, accepted, perfect. Okay. So we should be using the same Bicep file as our last unit. We are going to still be producing a large language model and a small language model. We're still going to be producing a content safety resource. We are still producing the same Foundry resource, the same project attached to the Foundry resource, the large language model, which will be GPT 4.1 Mini. And because of the transient error that 5.4 Mini Instruct is not working, and this is, I Googled this later, this is a known problem that will eventually resolve itself. I have to temporarily pause this one, and instead I deploy GPT 4.0 Mini, which is technically a large language model, but it's the smallest large language model that I can get available. Ah, we had a failure. I'm a little bit confused because I have run this before. This run resource deployment operation failed. As I mentioned, I have already run this script before, so we might be dealing with a transient error. How unexpected. Here you go, this is the fun of Bicep. Sometimes you can write nothing wrong, you can still have problems. So let me go ahead and look at the portal. Let's understand this because you will likely face similar problems. Okay, one moment, let us switch over. Okay. Let's go to our resource group. Our resource group. Okay, so we have, we have our three main resources deployed. So let's now, maybe it's a model deployment that failed. Okay. Ah, actually no, this is an entire course deployment failure. Okay. I'm going to show you, ironically, how we can delete all of this and start again. So let me swap over. Let's show you the deletion. Just to ensure nothing goes wrong, we are going to go to our shell script. We are going to delete the entire deployment. Okay, and delete. Okay, now it instantly responds, but you can verify the deletion is happening with this command, and it says deleting. We will have to wait a little bit for it to delete all the resources. Now, I am pretty certain that nothing has changed from the last version. So it is unexpected, and it failed on the actual project deployment itself, which is, which has never failed before. So it's either a transient problem with Azure, and it will hopefully resolve itself next time we execute it. Or it's because there is some update happened with Azure, and all of us are going to need to update our Bicep files. Now, one more piece of advice and wisdom that I've learned is you actually need to make sure that you change the name of your resources when you redeploy them, just in case. So I'm going to go to my course prefix, and I'm going to put in debug. I've now changed the course prefix, and that means everything, because of the parameters up here, using the course prefix or the boundary name, the course prefix or the project name, using the course prefix for the model deployment, course prefix for content safety, everything should be a new name, newly named resource. So this way we can ensure that we have no double up from a prior unit. It has resolved some previous bugs. Now I'm going to check how the deletion is going. It's still deleting. Okay, we have to wait. Shouldn't be too much longer now. I will just check again. There we go. As I said, it has now deleted everything, but I will be pretty sure some resources still exist. Yes, okay. As you can see, we still have these two resources existing, so we're going to have to manually delete them. Now this actually takes a little bit of time. You will see in a moment a deleting pop-up. Give it a second. It will pop up. A little slower than I expected. Let me just press enter. No. Oh, there we go. We're getting a response now. Deleting. Perfect. Okay. Now I'm going to check again. It's still deleting. Okay. As I said, we still have these two resources existing, deleting. Perfect. I'm going to pause this recording because this can take a little bit of time again, and I'll get back to you when all of the resources are deleted, and then we're going to redeploy them. Okay. The resources are deleted. Let's now redeploy our Bicep file with the new prefix. We're going to go deploy our Bicep file. Actually, the resource group needs to be recreated. We're now deploying our Bicep file. Okay. While I'm here, let's go into the beginning of our Python script to understand what we are doing today. So unit five, we are going to be exploring model parameters. Parameters like max pass messages, max tokens, temperature, and top P. In the prior unit, we learned about routing between small language models and large language models, and given that this is such a valuable step in the sense that it ensures that we minimize our costs, I'm going to try and use small language models and large language models as much as I can through the next set of units before our code becomes too big. We are going to experiment with and demonstrate the effects of these different parameters. So for max pass messages, to explain it, it controls how much conversation history is sent to the models. This is really important because actually none of our models currently have history. They're all at what you would call stateless. So they do not remember all the previous messages. You have to resend it. Ah, perfect. We've now had a successful deployment of the Bicep. As you can tell, that means that our prior Bicep file had no bugs in it. It does not have anything wrong with how we've put it together. It just so happens that there was a transient error, whether that was a temporary error or it was because we changed the prefix name. I can't be certain, but we've now fixed the problem. Now, before we go back to the Python script, let's get our deployment outputs. Okay. Let's go to our JSON file. Let's put in our deployments. Small language model. This is our OpenAI endpoint. Large language model. Okay. That should be all of our environment variables loaded in. Let's go back to the Python script. So, yes, models are stateless, and we are going to need to have to manually send history every time we run a call. But then, because we're doing it manually, we have full control, then, of the history. So you can use the parameter maxPastMessages to truncate that conversation history. You will see that. There's also maxTokens. maxTokens is that you can actually restrict your model's response to a certain number of tokens. There are multiple advantages to this, and we will play with that. There's also temperature. This is a really, really useful output that adjusts randomness and creativity of the output. Depending on what you're trying to do, you might want your model to be more or less random. popP is a little bit confusing because it's very similar to temperature, and it controls the diversity of token selection or nucleus sampling. We're also going to introduce a config file. I've realized through developing this Python script, we're getting too many variables, and I needed a config file to maintain all of these parameters. Furthermore, it allows some future units to be more flexible, help us maintain parameter and setting management, et cetera. We're going to learn how to tune these parameters to impact the response quality of both of our large language and small language models. We're also going to learn how they impact cost and performance. We're going to see the impact between large language and small language model, and importantly, how that may or may not impact intent classification. Okay? Bear with me, and we'll get started with this unit's Python script. Okay, let's get going. All of the same packages as last time, except YAML. We're going to need YAML to load in our configuration file. We're going to get our environment variables and load our configuration YAML file as so. We'll go into detail about that a bit later. This has now cleaned up some of our configuration. We are still going to authenticate like we did before. And we should still have the same helper functions as before. Our token counter is text safe. Building system instructions, that's all the same. We'll also have way that it's not collapsing. We still have the same classify intent. Nothing has changed here, as well as the same classify intent by small language model. That is still the same. But we are making a small change to the routing of the model. Actually, I was wrong. There is a small change to classify intent. We are loading in the parameters to our intent model. Let's have a quick look at that. Here, this is how you can implement all of your new parameters. In the client.chat.completions.create, you can directly put in your actual parameters. Now, remember, this is the classify intent by our small language model. We are going to be specifically changing the parameters for that particular model. We also are going to be doing this for the routing to the model. And here, we're going to have two new sets of parameters. Parameters for the large language model and parameters for the small language model. Here, we execute the intent where we're also having it as a third set, the intent classifier settings. Those three sets of settings we get to modify. Now, when we go to here, this is where we actually execute our large language and small language models. Here, max tokens, temperature, and P change depending on the model. Also, we are implementing here the max pass messages. And this is where we actually take a list of messages and we truncate it to the last certain number. Now, previously, you've only ever seen us embed the... Actually, let me show you. Maybe it's later on. Actually, it's been done in another part of the code. We've only put in the system instructions and the user message. So, it's only been two messages in a row. But actually, because of the statefulness, if you've got a conversation, you grow this list out. So, it might be system instructions, user message, user message, or system instructions, user message, previous response, user message, previous response. And that can keep on growing so your messages list can get bigger and bigger. And here with this, you can truncate it. Note that you have to be careful with this because you might trunk out away the system instructions. But we will go into that in another unit. And then we have our parameters going through. So, I hope it's really clear that all you have to do is use the same line of code you've been using previously and just add in those extra parameters. You don't need to do anything too complicated. Okay? And then our main script will be the same. We're going to have our user text at the front top here. Very simple. Can you refund my order? The system instructions. And then we will route to our model. Now, you are going to observe here a lot more parameters into this. That's because we've got three sets of parameters now. The intent parameters, the large language model parameters, and the small language model parameters. So, you are going to see that this is a lot bigger. Now, I contemplated turning this into a separate function. I'm putting these functions in separate files, creating classes to manage all this. And these are all great ideas. One of the problems I'm dealing with here is I want to have just a single Python script that I upload to Udemy so that you don't need to be downloading all these files and managing all of the folders. So, for now, I'm purposely restricting myself. But this is not best practice. So, don't do this in your real project, in your real application. Why don't you actually clean this up a little bit further? Okay. And then it goes through and gets the response, et cetera, et cetera. Okay, let's have a look at the config file. So, the config file here is created as such. It is a YAML file that gives us the ability to do hierarchies. So, we have a content safety section that we have in some of our content safety parameters, some of our system instruction parameters, some of our intent classifier parameters, some of our large language parameters, and our small language model parameters. Here, we are going to be purposely making sure that our intent classifier has no creativity because we only want it to say simple or complex. So, I don't want it to be creative. I don't want it to change it from simple or creative. So, we're purposely setting the temperatures to zero. I also am purposely setting the max tokens to a very small number. In fact, we can even go even lower than that, maybe five or ten. In fact, let me do five. And therefore, we can ensure that it only outputs a very small, simple, or complex response. It's a really good way to ensure that it doesn't accidentally do something completely different. For our large language model, we actually want it to be creative because it is dealing with complicated problems that may require creativity. But I also don't want it going completely off the rails and doing completely nonsensical responses to the user. So, I'm going to dial the temperature down just a little bit. Now, the max tokens, well, I don't want it to give paragraphs. So, let me actually try and make this more like 500. And therefore, it's going to still be a relatively short response. But at least we now know that it's not going to be completely short either. I'm also locking in the max pass messages, primarily because I don't want a lot of tokens being spent if we have a long conversation history. Now, for our small language model, this is when the response should be simple. So, we don't want it being too creative here because even a little bit of creativity in a small sentence will completely throw off the sentence. So, I'll give it a little bit less flexibility, but not too much. And for our tokens, it'll be 250. So, it has the ability to respond a little bit, but not too much. Okay, let's now go ahead and run our Python script. So, the intention is we want a classifier to use as few tokens as possible and to produce as least creativity as possible. Let's see if five tokens is enough. Okay. Let's control it here. I think I got a transient bug. We'll just execute it again. This happens sometimes on my computer. There we go. It's running. Running the message through content safety. Okay, it's running the classifier. Perfect. Let's see our response. Actually, we need to get the classification. Simple. Okay, cool. Now, let's purposely reduce our tokens even lower. Let's make the tokens be just one token. Let's now see what happens. Okay, we've got a response very quickly. Hey, it actually worked with just one token. How unexpected. So, simple work with just one token. How unexpected. Okay. Let me set the max tokens to just two. Keep it really simple. Okay. Great. Let's now purposely try and force our intent classifier to work with a more complicated statement. There we go. That's a very long generated question from ChatGPT. So, let's now run it again. Okay, let's see our response. Okay, and it still came through as complex. So, I think having a max tokens of just two is ideal. So, great. Let's now leave it. I think we have minimized the temperature and the top heat. I mean, minimized our max tokens. So, that means we are reducing our costs as much as possible. And we're kind of forcing the intent to be simple or complex. I'm very happy with these optimized parameters. Now, let's play with the max. With the max tokens. Let's purposely truncate the tokens to being just 10. Let's see what happens now. So, it's more than what the intent classifier is. It's still very low. And I want to see what the large language model creates as a response. Let's run the whole script. Let's see what happens. Okay. Okay, we got a response. Let me make this a bit bigger to see. Okay, the latency was quite low, which is good. Probably because we forced the output to be shorter. Completion tokens 10. This is really good to see. That means we set it to be 10. And it genuinely was an output of just 10. The response was very, very short. This was not enough. This was not acceptable. This was a complicated message we sent and a very short reply. So, you can now see by making the max tokens very short, we are getting a reasonable response. But it's not good enough for what I was hoping for. Let's now make the max tokens 50. Let's see what happens then. Okay. Ah, here we go. Ah, I see a problem. I'm sorry to hear about it, so it's better. But do you see this right here, the second part? It stopped mid-sentence. It was too short for the LLM. So, here we need to increase the number of tokens. Let's try 100. Okay. Perfect. I think this is now a reasonable response. If you'd like, I can share what makes our product stand out. Please provide your order number. It's multiple paragraphs. I think this is very good. Let's set the max tokens to just 150 to give it a little bit of extra room. But now, I want to try another parameter. Let's see what happens if we take the temperature all the way down to zero. What's going to happen? Okay. We've increased our latency to quite a bit. It was before only about 900 milliseconds. Now, it's 1,400 milliseconds. So, we've almost had a 50% increase. Okay. Great. We've got a decent response. The temperature has not broken the response. Let me copy and paste this. I want to see. I'm going to put this in my own notepad file that you might not be able to see. Let's run it again. I want to see if this response changes. Because, in theory, with low temperature, there is no creativity. So, maybe we will get exactly the same response. Okay. Okay. Okay. Now, I'm looking at my notepad file. I'm sorry to hear about your experience, Luke. The refund. Okay. The first sentence is identical. Let me check the second paragraph. Regarding the product comparison, I can provide information about the product. I do not have access to detailed. Yes. Help you understand. This is perfect. The response we got was identical to what we had previously. Let me now change the parameter to 1. What you should expect is a different response now. So, I hope you realize now that by setting the parameter to 0, you still allow the output to be very high quality. But it means with identical questions, you get identical responses. What I'm expecting now is a different response. You know what? It is very similar to before, but there are differences. Yep. So, this time it's trying to refund the request as quickly as possible. And at the very last sentence, it wants to start with the refund process. Last time it was proceed with the refund process. So, by setting the temperature, we've not fundamentally changed the response, but we have changed it slightly. I'm going to set the temperature actually to a lower number. Let's do 0.5. I'm going to change the P to 0. 0.0. Let's see what happens now. Okay. Perfect. It is still properly working. Okay. Great. Now, it's not normally recommended you make these parameters so low, but we're trying to push it to the extreme. So, let's purposely make the temperature 0 as well. Let's see what happens then. Okay. Great. Hmm. It's taking a little longer this time. There we go. It went through. Oh, the latency was significant. I was very impressed with that. Let's see what happens now. Okay. Perfect. Now, it's not normally recommended you make these parameters so low, but we're trying to push it to the extreme. So, let's purposely make the temperature 0 as well. Let's see what happens then. Hmm. It's taking a little longer this time. There we go. It went through. Oh, the latency was significant. That was very interesting. The latency for running the LLM was almost eight times longer because the max and because we changed these parameters both to 0. So, you can actually see the model is struggling to respond. Let's now have a look. Well, the response looks good, but you can see that the latency indicates there is a problem. The model is struggling to respond. So, this is a good example that even if the response looks good, your parameters are creating problems in the model. So, let's give it back some of our old parameters, 0.5, and let's maybe check the top P to 0.5 as well. It doesn't need to be perfect. Okay. Great. Great. I think for this particular model that I want it to be quite uniform in its response, I don't want it being too creative, I think this will be great. For different applications, you might want to be more strict, but remember, as we just learned, don't go all the way to 0. You might have some latency problems. Now, for the small language model, we would, in theory, want to be even less creative. We want to make sure that we are more standardized because it should be a simple response. But if our max tokens is 150 before, let's make this only 100. And now let me make the, let's now make the question different. Here we go. I'll just make it a lot more simple. Hopefully, this gets routed to the simple model. If not, we'll be doing the same model as before. Okay. What's going to happen? Where's it going to go? It's classifying it, classifying it. That's simple. Perfect. That's what we wanted. So we made it go simple. The latency was still pretty good. The total tokens was only 32, which is great. That is less than our max tokens of 100. I'm sorry we had a terrible experience, Luke. Can you please provide me with your order number? Perfect. Great. So now what we're doing is that if the user sends a simple question, we give them a simple response. If they send us a complicated question, we get a complicated response. Now, you may or may not want this depending on your application, but for this application, I think it's perfect. By doing this now, by reducing our max tokens, we are also ensuring we're not going to have more costs than expected. We're also ensuring that the user should get a more reliable response. And also by changing the temperature, it makes debugging a lot easier. Okay. I think now you've learned how we can use configuration files together with these parameters to change the user experience. So in summary, we have learned the impact of changing model parameters for both small language models and large language models. You learned that max pass messages ensures how much conversation and history is sent to the model. You've learned in max tokens that it can help you set the maximum length of the model's response. You've learned temperature helps you adjust the randomness or the creativity. You learned that top P is similar to temperature and it controls the diversity of token selection. You've also learned that we can use a config.yaml file to help us manage all of these parameters. We continue to use intent classification from previous units and we continue to use cost tracking and latency and how the latency significantly increased with very low parameters for top P and temperature. Perfect. Thank you so much for watching and I'll see you in the next unit.

=== ID 27: Unit 6: Azure AI Search (Part 1) - Basic Search and Retrieval ===
LENGTH: 17601
Welcome everyone. Let's go into Unit 6. Now in Unit 6, we're going to be learning about Azure AI Search. And it's actually going to be the Part 1 of a little series of units, because there is quite a little bit to configuring Azure AI Search. As always, let's begin with getting our environment set up. I have already created my virtual environment, so all I need to do is activate it. Perfect. I have already installed all of the required packages and frozen them, so you'll be able to install the packages yourself. Now, there will be quite a few differences to this unit, because we're not going to be using the standard large script we've been developing. This one is going to be standalone, just for setting up Azure AI Search. And then we will expand on it in another unit, and then we'll finally bring it into the larger script that we've been working with. That way we don't just introduce everything all at once. Now to begin with, as always, we need to create our resource group. Okay, great. Let me make it a little bit bigger. Now we're going to deploy the bicep file, and then I'm going to explain what's going on while it's being deployed. Okay, great. I'm just going to wait until it's, ah, an error message. Okay. Ah, okay. I made a very small name. Okay. Okay. Okay, perfect. I just made a small mistake in the bicep file's name. That's right. I can make a very small fix to that. Azure AI can only contain lowercase. That's fine. That is perfect. Let us redeploy the script now. If you did not read the error message, I just learned that I had made a very small spelling. Ah, it's been accepted. Great. A very small spelling problem with the bicep file. So let me explain what that was, and then I'll explain the bicep file. I had named our new service AI underscore search, but underscore is not accepted as a resource name. You must remove it. I removed it, and the bug has gone away. Now let's explain what we are deploying. We are only going to deploy one service in this bicep file. Oh, great. It has been accepted. It has successfully deployed. And what we are going to build is just the AI search service, and that's it. We are going to ensure that we still use the same prefix as normal, and then that will create the AI search resource name. We are going to be using the standard tier. Now there is technically a cheaper tier called the basic tier, but that basic tier is very basic and does not have vector search capability. Whereas the standard tier does, and so we will be using that tier. Perfect. I'm just seeing, does this come up with a pop-up of different... There's a pop-up there. Don't worry about that. There is also a replica and partition count that we have set to the lowest number. For now, because we are doing just testing, we don't need to increase this. But if you are doing far more larger applications, you would need to increase the replicas or increase the partitions to reduce latency. Importantly, we are going to be using our CLI authentication default to zero credential. So we set this to true as we normally do in our bicep file. Finally, as normal, we are going to be returning the service endpoint. I actually don't need the ID and the name. Now I look at this. We only need the service endpoint as an output. Perfect. Now with this very simple bicep file, we have successfully deployed our resource. Let me now go and run the getting of the outputs. Okay. We want the endpoint. Here is the endpoint. I'm going to copy that endpoint URL. I'm going to go to the launch.json file and put this endpoint in as an environment variable. Perfect. Now you are going to see some new CLI commands that I'm highlighting to what we normally include. And that's because a little bit more is needed to get Azure AI Search working. You actually need to ensure that you have the right permissions to interact with Azure AI Search. Foundry doesn't need this out of the box, but Azure AI Search does. So let's now introduce this. This is the first time in my course that I will be showing you how to assign roles to your account. And you can do this all with CLI commands. Now the way you're going to do this is you're going to need three different roles. You are going to need the Search Service Contributable, the Search Index Data Contributable, and the Search Index Data Readable. Now you will understand about the indexes a bit later, but for now all three roles are going to be needed. However, I learned that you might not be able to use your free trial ID, and instead you're going to need your object ID. The command here that I'm going to quickly run, it will return my personal object ID. From there, you just need to copy and paste it as I'm doing here. I'll show you the rest of this. This particular command, which is AZ role assignment create, it takes in your user object ID. It ensures that you're a user, not an application or an agent. You're giving yourself the Search Contributable role, and here's the actual name of the roles. And then there's the scope. The scope will be your subscription ID, your resource group, which is very important, which means someone can only with this role, which is myself, I only have permission for Azure AI Search within the resource group. I also have to put in the name of the search group, and actually, we need to update this. That is fine. Let me just get the search service name, which we actually had before in the Bicep file. I got rid of it. I'm actually going to keep that now that I know this. Perfect. Here is the search service name that we had from the output from before. I'm copying and pasting that. I am going to then replace this. This is what I was doing in demonstration earlier as a test. Perfect. Now I will need to assign myself this particular permission or identity. It takes a little while to go through, and we need to do all of them sequentially. Once this one has gone through, perfect, I am now going to do the other two. Okay, let's do the last one. Almost there. Perfect. Now I have given myself the permissions to interact with the resource that we have now deployed. Perfect. We should now have set everything up. Perfect. Let's now go ahead and look at this script. This will be part one. We are going to learn about indexing, querying, but we're not going to be dealing with vector search or semantic search. In the next part, we will. That is because there's actually quite a few complicated steps to setting up Azure AI Search, and I want to introduce this without throwing in the added complexity. Okay, now for this unit, we are going to learn about how, as you already have, how to use Bicep to automate the deployment of the AI Search service. We are going to learn how to create a search index. This is a very important concept where you will define the structure and the searchable fields for your data. This is needed with Azure AI Search, as it cannot automatically create the index. You must define it. Once you have made the index, you then can upload, or we will upload and ingest documents directly into that index that will prepare them for search and retrieval later. Then we are going to actually perform a search. We're going to retrieve relevant documents, learning how to use Azure AI Search for the real world. We've already learned how to use or assign role-based access control to this particular service. Great. I think we have everything ready to start going with this next part of the unit. Okay, let's keep going. Here we're going to need quite a few different functions imported from the Azure Search SDK. You can use the API, but the SDK is significantly easier to work with. Furthermore, when there are bugs, it is much easier to debug. We only need the search service endpoint because we will be authenticating using the default Azure credential, which makes connection much easier. We can configure this in a config file in the future, but you have to give a name to your index. In this case, I'm going to call it the Unit 6 AI Search Index. We're going to authenticate using default Azure credential. Then we're going to be four, three, there will be three functions that we are going to need. We're going to need a function to create an index, a function to upload our documents, and a function to search documents. Then we can just run the script. It's very simple. As long as you've got a user text message, so user message, which could be the prompt for the AI, then we will be able to get some results from the index. Let's understand the index, as this is the most complicated part. We are going to be making a simple index with a basic schema. Our index is going to have four fields. These are optional. You can include as many or as few fields as possible, as long as you've got a key and the content. We are going to include the key, the title of the document, the content of the document, and a category. None of these are, the category especially is probably the least likely. If you don't have a category, you don't need to include one, but you need to then make an index that doesn't have a category. Now, when you are making your index, you need to use the right field types. The field types such as simple field and searchable field are going to be needed for you to be able to specify data types and to enable the different search capabilities, which is very important to consider because if you're dealing with vector semantic search, you are going to need different field types. We are going to connect to Azure AI Search Service using the endpoint and the default Azure credential. Then we are going to call the search index client to create the search index for us. Then we are going to then create the index using the search service. We've actually already talked about this one. Perfect. That is fine. But let's talk about the vector embedding support. This is really important. Here, we are going to show and we are not showing a schema that includes a vector field, which means this index cannot be used for vector search or semantic search with embeddings. In the next unit, we will go over that so that we're not introducing too much at once. To enable vector search, we are going to need in the next unit a field such as collection or EMD single and that we need to configure it for the vector search later on. We will go through examples of that later. Okay. So here we are. Here we are defining the schema for our index. The ID field, which will be a simple field that will be a string. A searchable field. This is very important because this is what we're going to search on. That will be the title and the string and it will be a string. Another searchable field, which will be content and string and a simple field, a category. But importantly, we will allow this one to be a filterable field so you can apply filters before you apply a search. Finally, we will then give the index its index name. Once that is together, we have not made the search index yet. We still need to send it. So then we are going to connect by using the service endpoint and the authentication. We're going to get the index client and then we're going to do a simple check. If the index already exists, then we aren't going to recreate the index. You can do that by doing index client dot get index and if the index doesn't exist, we will do index client create the index. This is very important. Now, this is where the permissions come in. If we don't get the search index data contributable, then the command that I'm highlighting may fail. So it's very important we have our permissions set up. In the upload documents, we're going to do a sample. We're going to define via a list of JSON strings what exactly all of the documents are going to be. If you have documents from your own company, you are going to need to convert them into a similar format. So you can't just immediately upload a PDF file. You might need to extract the content. Now here, we are going to give an index of one. A very crude, simple way to make an index. But for this case, it is unique. We're going to give a very simple title for this one. Just talking about machine learning with some content, a bit of a sentence. We're going to talk about Python programming, Azure AI search best practices. I'm going to try and return this result later. So I'm trying to remember this one. Cloud computing fundamentals and even a Docker one. I might try and get the Docker document later. Once we have defined our documents, which you could put as a function input parameter for you to make this a very general function, then we are going to connect to the search client. Again, using the AI search service endpoint, the index. So you need the index when you're getting a search client and the authentication, then we can upload our documents. We'll do the search.client, upload documents. Having already tested this, I know this fails if you do not have the appropriate permissions, hence why we had to assign them to my user. When that's done, you will know if the document is successfully uploaded. And now finally, the searching itself. You are just going to need to connect to your search client. But importantly, you need to specify your index already ahead of schedule. You might need to go and search through multiple search clients if you have multiple indexes. And finally, a very simple line of code. You will do the search.client.search in order to search. You will send that user question along with the three categories, the three results you want returned, the title, the content, the category. Then we are going to get our results. We're going to print all of the results so we know what they are, but we'll also return the entire object for later use. So this is a very simple way in order to search the Zuer AI search. In the future, we're actually going to be able to convert the question into a vector embedding itself and the search text should be a vector embedding, not a text. That will be for the next unit. So I've now put in a user question about Zuer AI search. Now what's very important is we are not doing similarity searching. We are not doing semantic searching. So it's actually doing a keyword lookup. Zuer AI search is a necessary phrase in order to ensure that I get the document, a Zuer AI search. If I don't put in these words, I won't get the document. Let's now put it to the test. Let's create our index, upload our documents, and search our documents. Okay. Let's execute the script. So we're going to try and get any documents related to a Zuer AI search. Okay. So now we have successfully got the script working. You can see from the outputs that we did not have any errors, which means my user account has the correct permissions. We successfully created an index. Now because of testing, the index already existed. So it actually skipped the creation. Then we successfully uploaded five documents and you can see them. And then we got the search for what are the best practices for a Zuer AI search. Now we uploaded, let's just double check how many documents we uploaded. One, two, three, we uploaded five documents. And you can see that we actually got four results. So not all five appeared, but we got four. And you can see the very top result was a Zuer AI search best practices with a high score compared to the next best score. And then you get the contents of that document. You can see the other documents have much lower scores. Now this is because, and I'm going to highlight this, the Zuer AI search, even without vectors, vector embeddings and semantic search is still quite a clever searching tool. It uses tokenization, stemming and scoring algorithms like the BM25 all together to rank results by relevance. So it's already, even at its most basic level, a very powerful searching solution. Perfect. Let's now put in another question. Let's make it very simple. What is Docker? Okay. Let's see what documents get returned. We are going to create the index, but then it'll skip it. The documents actually get reuploaded. That's actually not necessary. And now you can see that we got two results, only two results returned. Thankfully the Docker document popped up with the highest score, but we also got the Python programming. I find this very, very useful because we asked a very simple question. We didn't ask anything about Python or programming or web development or data science or AI. We didn't mention any of that. We just asked, what is Docker? But even with that, the search algorithm with AI search at its most basic level was still smart enough to return this document. In future units, we're going to be able to take all of these outputs, put them into an appropriate format for an AI algorithm and apply them as grounding results for our LLM to continue its operation. If it's not obvious with this entire demonstration today, we never once used AI. We did not use an LLM once to help us. You can do searching even without LLMs. But those search results can enhance an LLM significantly. That should be everything that we need to know because we've learned how we can deploy the AI search surface via Bicep. We learned how to create a search index and define its schema. We learned how to upload ingest documents into the index. And you learned how to perform a search query. You also learned about applying the different roles. And very importantly, you learned about how it actually thinks at a very high level. So you now know a lot more about AI search and will be ready to extend this with vectorization in the next unit. Thank you so much and I'll see you in the next unit.

=== ID 28: Unit 7: Azure AI Search (Part 2) - Vector Search and Semantic Ranking ===
LENGTH: 15789
Good morning, everyone. This is going to be an exciting unit because we are going to go into developing embeddings and using it with Azure AI Search. So let's get started. At the beginning, I need to activate my environment. I go to the readme file. I activate the environment. I've already installed all the packages. These are actually all the same packages needed from the last unit, and I've already logged in with Azure. So now what we're going to need to do is to create our resources. We are going to create our resource group. Okay. Now, we are going to be developing quite a few different resources this time, but let me start the Bicep file, and then I'll talk about them. We are now deploying our resources, and let's look at this file. So we are still going to be working under a limited scope of trying to be focused on just Azure AI Search. We're not bringing it into the larger script yet, but even so, we need quite a few resources now because we're using an embedding model. What we're going to need to do is to build an AI Foundry resource like we've done previously. We are going to need to build a Foundry project as we did previously, and we need to do this because we are going to be loading in a new type of model. We're not going to be loading in a large language model or a small language model. We're going to be deploying an embedding model, and that's why we need Foundry and a Foundry project because we need access to our embedding models. Now, the embedding model we've selected today is the TextEmbedding3Small. This is a very small embedding with 1,000, I believe it's 36. Hold on. 1, 5, 3, 6 dimensions. The TextEmbeddings3 model is a very good model that allows you to develop vector embeddings. Now, we're going to see exactly what an embedding looks like because we are going to get the raw outputs in this unit. Note that this one is 1, 536 and is very good for semantic search and embedding use cases. There is a large version, but we're not going to need that one today. As you can see, we had a successful deployment, which means not only have we deployed Foundry, but we've successfully deployed this particular model. Finally, independently, we then create our Azure AI search resource. It's actually separate. They are not connected here. Then we need to return all the outputs that are needed. We need our OpenAI endpoint, we need our embedding model deployment name, and we need our AI search service endpoint. Now, before we keep going, we also need to get the right permissions because if you don't remember, in the last unit, we needed to have the search service contributable, the search index data contributable, and the search index data readable. We need to assign these to the resource group and the AI search service that we created so that we can create an index, upload our files to the index, and search the index. Let's assign these permissions. Perfect. Now we have all the permissions that we need in order to use our Azure AI search service. Now, before we go and run the Python script, I need to talk a little bit more about this embedding model. Let's go into the browser and let's look at the Foundry portal. Look at it through the Foundry portal. Here we are. Let's go into our resource group, and let's go into our Foundry project. Perfect. Now let's go into build, and let's go into our deployments. Now you are going to see our successfully deployed embedding model. You are now going to see the model as it is called, if I scroll down, text embedding three small with a successful deployment. If I scroll down, text embedding three small with a successful deployment. Now, this is very important. There are two things that blocked me from using this model that you will need to overcome. The first one is your subscription to Azure cannot be a trial anymore. It needs to be a pay-as-you-go trial. If I go out of this, if I go to upgrade, well, you just saw it for a second. Maybe if I go backwards, okay, it went away, but I've now upgraded to a pay-as-you-go. Thankfully, it is not as bad as it seems because I still get to keep the credit that I was given when I started my trial account. Instead now, where trial I would be completely blocked from using Azure after 30 days, now it'll continue, but for another 24 days left, I have, then I'll have to be paying everything myself. You're actually, there's no extra costs for your trial period. It's actually not too bad going to a pay-as- you-go model. While we're here, note the costs I've incurred. Out of all of the tutorial videos you've seen me build so far, I have only incurred a cost of three Australian dollars, which is very small. So that hopefully will give you some comfort that it's very cheap to run this if you are doing it just for learning purposes. Now to the second thing. The reason you needed, well actually the first thing, going to the second thing, the reason you had to upgrade was because this model, the Text3 embedding model, is not available to trial users. You have to be a pay-as-you-go user. So that is one of the reasons we had to upgrade. The second reason is you have to request for quota. Let me show you what this looks like. For this model, you will, after you deploy, you can press that button and you get a form. You will fill out a lot of details. I just put in my own name, my own email, my own name for the company, my own personal address, my subscription ID, and a little bit of a reason as to why I wanted the model. Then I did Azure OpenAI, model deployment, global standard, and I went through and I found towards the bottom the Text Embedding3 small model. I said I wanted the region, which is Australia East, and then I put in how much I wanted, and I put in a quota of 20, and then I pressed submit. This got approved very quickly, but importantly, you will be denied if you only have a trial account. So you have to be in a pay-as-you-go model, then you can fill out this form, and then you'll get permission to use this model. Unfortunately, all of the embedding models require this, so there was no alternative I could find that was available with the trial account. Okay, let's go back to our VS Code studio. Okay, let's get into it. Okay, so now we've deployed all of our resources and applied the permissions. Let's now get our deployment outputs. Okay, so our OpenAI endpoint, put it in as our environment variable, our embedding model name, our AI search service endpoint. Okay, we should be good to run our Python script. So, what are we going to do in this unit? Well, we are going to move from basic indexing to semantic search with vector embeddings. Previously, we deployed a basic AI search service using Bicep, and now we're going to expand on that. We are going to design and create a search index with both traditional text fields and vector fields to support hybrid search capabilities. We are going to be generating vector embeddings for each of our documents using the text embedding 3 model, converting the text into numerical representations that will capture semantic meaning. We're going to upload and ingest the documents with the corresponding embeddings into the index, preparing the data for both keyboard and semantic search scenarios. We are then going to perform a hybrid search query that combines the traditional keyword search BM25 with vector similarity search, delivering more relevant results by understanding the intent and the context. We are then going to implement semantic re-ranking using a semantic configuration that is going to prioritize the title and the content fields, improving the result prevalence through language-based reordering. We also learned about how to assign role-based access control roles, such as the search service contributor, the search index data contributor, and the search index data reader. Okay, so let's now get started. We need to load in quite a few new functions. We need to be loading in vector search, an HNSW algorithm, vector search profile, and some semantic functions as well. But other than that, everything is the same. We will be loading in our environment variables. We will load our index as the unit 7 AI search index. We will authenticate with Christian. We will authenticate with credential. We will load in our OpenAI client. And now we will have the same functions as before, except one extra. We are going to have the same create index, but with modifications. We're going to have the same upload documents, but with modifications, and the same search documents with modifications. However, we're also going to have a get functions, get documents function, because last time we defined the documents and uploaded them all in the same function. This time, I split it out. Here, we will get our documents without the embedding, just defined in here, just as a temporary placeholder. In a real environment, you'd be reading these documents from some source for your company, but in this case, it's a tutorial, so we're just manually defining them. Now, let's start with the main logic before we get into the embeddings. Well, we are going to ask the question, what is Docker? Remember in the last unit, we got a response that was the Docker document, as well as the programming document. It will be very interesting to see how that changes. Now, we're going to start by creating an index. Let's understand it. Most of the complexity for this unit will be in creating this index. Here, we were creating an index with a basic schema, but we're going to expand it. Oh, this is actually the old text. Let me explain. I will update this before I upload it, but let me explain the new changes. Here, we are still defining the index as before with the same fields I'm highlighting, but we're adding in an extra field. This is our vector field. In here, we're going to call the vector content vector. You can call it whatever you need. We're going to make sure it's a collection edible single type. You then have to specify exactly how many dimensions are in our model, which is 1536. Then we have to give this vector search profile a name. This is how you set up a vector field. Then we have to configure the vector search algorithm. In this case, we are going to be using the HNSW algorithm or the hierarchical navigable small world algorithm for efficient vector similarity search. Remember, you can pick other algorithms like IVF or PQ depending on your requirements, the index size and the embedding model. In this case, we are also going to need to create a vector search profile that specifies the algorithm to use for vector search. Here we are. We run the vector search function defining the algorithm and defining the vector search profile. That now becomes a vector search object. Then we have the semantic search configuration. Because we are wanting to do hybrid searching, we need to define this. This is going to tell Azure AI Search to configure the title field and then the content field when re-ranking results for semantic search queries. Here you can adjust the prioritized fields based on your data and search relevance needs. Here the search semantic configuration is going to be required to enable semantic search capabilities which use language models to understand user intent and context for improved search relevance. Without this configuration, the semantic search will not be able to re-rank our results based on the content of the fields and instead you will only get keyword based search results. We don't want that. We want vector searching or hybrid searching. Here you define it with the semantic configuration function. You say what the prioritized fields are. First the title field and then the content field. Then you just need to wrap this up in a semantic search wrapper. Now that we have everything we need, we've now defined the fields, we've defined the vector search, we've defined the semantic search. Now we put it all together into the index. Here in our index we're going to put in the fields, the index name, the vector search, and the semantic search. Then we just need to then create it. We will connect to the client index like last time. We will check if the index exists. If it doesn't, we create it just like last time. From here, once you've set up the index, everything else is almost exactly the same. Okay. So now let's go into the next stage. We will be getting our documents in which you've already seen. Now let's go into the uploading of the documents. Now to upload the documents, we will load in our documents and then for every document we are going to add the embedding. So we are going to, for this document, for the content of the document, not the title, but the content of the document, we will generate an embedding. Then we will create a new document list which will contain all of the prior information plus the extra vector which is the content vector and we will generate this embedding for every document. We will go and show this vector embedding a little bit later. Then once we have all of our documents with vectors, we are then going to upload them. We are going to connect to our search client and we are going to upload all of our documents to Azure AI Search with the embedding already generated. This is a really important distinction because there are ways to get Azure AI Search to do the embedding generation for you but in this situation we ourselves are doing the vector embedding and we are including it ourselves. We may in another unit show you how to get AI Search to do it for you automatically. Okay. Now let's look at the vector embedding function. Here it's a very simple function. We will be calling the OpenAIClient.Embeddings.Create Note that this is slightly different to before because of the dot embedding. Then we will just call our model given any text and we will get an embedding response. I'm actually going to put a debug in here so we can see what this looks like. Okay. You now just need to know about the searching of the document. Well, now we are at the stage where we want to be putting in the question. So the question is also going to be needed to be converted into a vector. So we will run the same embedding function for the question and get a question vector. Then we can connect to our search client and then what we can do is we can run the search. Now we are going to be putting in the question for the text so we can do our keyword searching. We are then going to be putting in the vector, the question vector, to do the vector part of the searching where we would be putting in exactly what that embedding is by the vector queries part of the search function. We are then going to say the type of searching we want to do which is semantic, which allows it to do both of those keyword and vectors together. We are also going to make sure that we return these three outputs and that we include the total count. Then we are going to print all of the results. Importantly, we are going to get the score which is the keyword score and the semantic score, which is a new score that we didn't get from last time. Finally, we will convert all of these results into a list so that we can use it in the future for our large language model, which in this unit we are not connecting to yet. We will do that in another unit. Let's now go ahead and start running our script with debug statements. I'm going to put in a few debugs just so we are ready. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

=== ID 29: Unit 8: Azure AI Search (Part 3) - Agentic RAG ===
LENGTH: 15218
Welcome, everyone. Let's go into our next unit, which will be the final unit in Azure AI Search. I have now just gone and created my virtual environment. And now we are going to be ready to be able to start deploying all of our resources. Now, in this unit, we are going to be going back to the original main script. We're going to be running our LLMs via a large language model or a small language model, et cetera. And now we're going to be able to add grounding results to help the AI or the LLMs be able to take in more context and help with the order requests, that examples that we've been talking about. So to begin with, let's deploy all of our resources. Let's create our resource group again. Now let's deploy our Bicep files. Let's have a look at this. Here, we are going to be loading Azure Foundry with a project. We're going to be loading Azure AI Search. I also realize we need to also include content safety. So bear with me while I just put in that last little change. OK, we're back. We've now included content safety. So let's now redeploy our config file. Or our Bicep file, I mean. Now let's talk about this Bicep file. We are going to be loading in Azure AI Search. Azure AI Foundry, the project, the content safety resource, also the AI Search resource. We're going to be deploying a large language model, a small language model, and an embedding model. So our Bicep file now is growing with more complexity. Importantly, there are some key stages you need to be aware of. When we start deploying the large language model, we have put on a depends on so that the small language model is only built or deployed after the large language model is deployed. And then same with the embedding model. It will only be deployed after the small language model has been deployed. So all three of our models will be deployed sequentially. And this isn't because, although in theory, Bicep can deploy these models in parallel. I've been finding I've been getting errors in doing so by putting in the depends on statement, I haven't been getting errors. Then independently, we will be deploying an AI Search resource and independently a content safety resource. Perfect. We've now had all of our resources successfully deployed. You can now see we've got a lot more outputs, a lot of endpoints, deployment names, et cetera. Let's just have a very quick squiz to our portal, our Azure portal. Okay, here we are. Now I'm here because I actually want to show you my costs. My costs have significantly increased from 3 cents to $3.13. I'm going to be monitoring this, but this is because of Azure AI Search. It's because it doesn't have the same costing structure as a lot of the LLMs do. It's actually a cost per hour, and I left it running open for quite a few hours. Hence why the costs increased. So now I want you to be very aware that if you are building content, Azure AI Safety Resource, that you want to have it up for as small of a period of time as possible. While we're here, let's look at our resource group and our resources. Great, we can now see our Foundry and our project, our AI Search resource, and our Content Safety Resource. We should have everything we need. If we go into the Foundry portal, let's confirm all three models have deployed successfully. Okay, we're going to build. We're going to deployments. Perfect, all three models have been deployed successfully. Let's now go and run our code. Okay, perfect. Let's now run our CLI commands. Let me now get my, let's now give myself the permissions for Azure AI Search. I'm going to be putting in my object ID. I'm going to need my subscription ID. So let me show you how I would get it. I'm going to go to the portal right now. It's probably the fastest way. I'm going to go up the top and type subscriptions. And here you will see my subscription with my subscription ID. Perfect. Let's now go back. Let me put in my subscription ID. Perfect. The resource group is already eight. Great. Let's now assign the permissions. Ah, ah, I forgot my resource group. I'm going to put in the name of the resource group. There it is. Great. A little thought I was having, if you're familiar with CICT pipelines, a shell script and these CLI commands via your CICT pipeline to fully automate the deployment of your entire application and by assigning the roles. But that is not for this unit. Okay. We have now fully deployed all our resources, applied our permissions. We should be ready to run the script. Actually, we need to get all our outputs. Let us do that quickly. Okay. Our small language model name, our open AI endpoint, our large language model name, our embedding model name, our content safety endpoint, our AI search service endpoint. And I'm just going to put in Luke in customer. Perfect. Okay. Now we should be ready to execute our script. Okay. Now let's go ahead and understand how this script is being put together. Well, first of all, I've needed to create our functions folder. I tried to avoid, I tried to put it off because I wanted it to be one singular Python script, but I've realized it's getting way too complicated. And we start need to, we're going to need to start to put in some best practices for cleaning up our functions or our big script. So now if we go to our script, we are going to be loading in our functions. Now, again, we could also clean this up by turning them into classes, but one step at a time. Now, to begin with, let's describe that we're going to be loading in all of our client functions or client libraries. And we're going to get all the authentication done, done in the main script. We are then going to load in all of our functions and I'll briefly go through them with you. And then we'll be able to essentially run our script or get all of the environment variables ready. We'll load in our configuration file. We will authenticate our script. Authenticate to all of the different services that we need to authenticate to. And then we would go through two big stages. We are going to be bringing in Azure AI Search into this. So at the beginning, we are going to create our index, which means we're going to ensure that we have an index available for semantic search. Then we are going to get our documents, which we will go through in more detail. And we'll upload our documents. Then we'll be ready to actually run our solution. Here, we are going to try and go through an example of refunding an order. Now, we will update this a little bit. What we're going to do is we're going to search immediately for any documentation related to the order. Then we'll go through, build our system instructions with the appending of the grounding results. Previously, this was set to none. So this will be the first time where our system instructions will include the grounding results. Then we are going to check for content safety, ensure that the question is safe. In fact, we could do this earlier, but we're going to do it afterwards, just in case the document that we are getting also has a problem. Then we are going to actually run our LLMs. We are going to do the intent classification and then depending on the model, we're going to send everything. We're going to send the system instructions with the grounding results, with the user question and get our response from the LLM. Finally, we're going to ensure that the output is safe. So for everything that we've learned so far, this is going to be an end-to-end demonstration. Now, let me talk about these functions. I have put all of our helper functions into one script. You should be familiar with this. No major changes were made. I just had to ensure that the clients were being passed through appropriately. For intent classification, nothing significant has changed. We just have to make sure that we are sending in the OpenAI client into the intent classifier. For model routing, it will be the same. We just are passing in the OpenAI client. Everything else is the same and as expected. What is new is we've created these AI search functions. Here, all the functions that we previously discussed in the prior unit are all in here. The only major modifications made is the inputs. We've ensured that the index client gets passed through when needed or the search client has been passed through when needed. We're still running the same embedding model. We're still searching the documents via semantic search. If I go through and show the index, you can see we are still defining the semantic search vector field. We are still defining a vector search, still defining a semantic search configuration. We are still defining the index in the same way. Everything is pretty much the same. I did make one very small difference. I created a slightly different if statement output so we don't have to keep recreating the index and so we don't have to keep continuously uploading our files. Let me show you what I mean. Here, we are going to create the index. And we're going to check if the index has already been created, then we won't create the index again. And if the index has been created again, we're going to make the assumption the documents have already been uploaded. So then we will also skip the uploading of the documents. Just a little trick to try and make this code more seamless. And what I really want to make you pay attention to is the get documents. For this example, I have changed the documents. I'm actually putting in order numbers, a series of order numbers from different people. Or you could pretend on the same person. So now we have a lot more data to work with. So when we ask the question, I don't have my order ID. Well, now we can actually get that context. We can help the customer identify their previous orders and continue with the refund. So let's now go ahead and run the script. I'm going to, can you please refund my order? I bought a TV and it wasn't, and it hasn't, and it's, and it was broken before I turned it on. It was broken before it was not functioning. I first got it out of the box. Okay. Now, in theory, we have created a document, if I show you, around a TV. Let's see what happens. Okay, great. We will run this. We will get our grounding results. We should be able to then send it to the system instructions, go through content safety. You could argue content safety could be at the very beginning before we even continue. In fact, we can do that. Why don't we do that? Let's put content safety at the very beginning. Let's put it in right here. Perfect. So now it's ensuring everything's still, yep, we've got all the inputs. Now we're going to have content safety. So let's now run this first. Okay, let me put this up, because this will be quite a lot of outputs. Okay, we are creating the index. Now, I've already run this, so the index was already created previously. Let's now see what happens. We are scanning the user message. It passed the safety test. We have got four results come back for our grounding demonstration. This is actually an unexpected, well, I'm expecting this, but I have not told you why this should be an unexpected response, because we are only asking about a TV. So why are we getting an espresso coffee machine or yoga mat appearing? So this is something that I'm going to teach you how to optimize. However, the great thing is we are talking about the TV, and the very top result was our 55-inch 4K smart TV. So this is great. It definitely shows that our AI search is working as expected. Then with all of these results, we are then going to count the tokens for the system instruction. Even with all of this, we are getting 478. Great. It's not too bad. Let's now have a look at the assistance reply. I'm sorry to hear about your TV not functioning. To assist you, could you please provide me with your order number? Okay, so the way we've set this up, it is still not able to respond without knowing the order number. Interesting. Let us make sure and be completely certain the AI is getting the order number as a part of its system instructions. Okay. So I'm going to purposely pause it here. And let's now see and just be certain the grounding results are going through correctly. Okay. Grounding results. Ah, okay. We have a problem. The function is not returning the grounding results. This will probably be a small bug. I'm just going to put in a debug right inside the searching. Let's understand what has gone wrong. Okay. We're here. This should be no output. Yes. Do we have results? We do have an iterator. Okay. Very interesting. I know that we definitely got the results here. So yes, we could even seal the results. I think this is just a small little bit of Python configuration that I need to fix. I'll get back to you when I've rewritten this part of the code. Okay. We have now fixed it. We are now getting the results as one long big string, which is how I was hoping it to be turned into. Okay. Now, while we are here, I want to show you one config setting that I've added in. I've added in the top K. This is going to tell you the top results to send back to the AI search. And because we are only looking for one refund to come back, I'm going to set this to one. So, in theory, we should only get one document returned, which will be the TV refund. I'm going to then import a TV previously, which you should have record of. And it was not functioning when I first got it out of the box. Perfect. Hopefully now the grounding results will pass through successfully and the AI will be more helpful. Okay. I'm just turning off all the debugs. Let's run our script. See what happens. Okay. Okay. So, you can now see that the system instructions have jumped to 873, almost doubling previously, which means I can confirm that the documents have been appended to the system instructions. This has been classified as complex. Great. Now we've got our response. Ah, very good. This is a very different response. The agent is now saying, thank you for reaching out, Luke, to assist with the refund order or your refund request or your TV order. Can you please provide me with the order number? Ah, okay. Well, it's still not being able to locate it, which is unexpected. Let us then, just while we are here, directly get the order number from the documents, just in case you want AI search functions. Order ID. Okay. Hopefully we will get this to work. Ah, cool. Perfect. Look at this. We now got the response I was actually hoping for. It now says, thank you for providing your order ID. It's no longer asking for the order ID. It also put in my name. I will check the refund eligibility. Perfect. Or exactly the TV that we mentioned, although it does say Ultra HD, I don't think it was called Ultra HD before, but the 55 inch 4K Ultra inch smart TV with the order number. Please give me a moment. Perfect. We have now been able to ground our model with information about the TV because we never said what TV it was. We just said TV and it has been able to identify exactly which TV it was based on the order number and the documents that we grounded it with. I hope you can now see how you can ground results using Azure AI Search through this end-to-end walkthrough. Thank you so much and I'll see you in the next unit.

=== ID 30: Unit 9: Tool Calling û REST API Integration ===
LENGTH: 52
/* Sanitization Error: No valid JSON object found */

=== ID 32: Unit 11: Multi-Agent - Handoff Pattern ===
LENGTH: 18442
Welcome, everyone. In this unit, we are going to go through the first chapter, or the first unit, in multi-agent orchestration. Now, technically, we've done a lot of intent classification, which is a little bit of multi-agent orchestration, but I would really only classify it for what we're going to do today. So let's get started. As always, we are going to start by deploying all of our resources. Now, there are some changes today with our resources that we're deploying. So let me now very clearly show you what those are going to be. Just turning off the test formatting. There's a few test commands that I wrote on previous tests. Okay, let's now deploy our resources. Okay, now let's have a look at what these resources look like. So this is actually an even simpler Bicep file, almost as one of the most simplest Bicep files that we have been using thus far. We are going to only be using one language model. Now, you could technically use more, but for this application, we need a large language model for our agents. I emphasize the word agents. But in this case, we only need one model to use across multiple agents. So we only need one model, and it needs to be one that can handle complex interaction. There's nothing different to show here, other than that we're just deploying the large language model on its own, and only the three outputs. Perfect. Now, if we go to the launch file, I've already pre-deployed it. Just need to get rid of the test. Perfect. Great. We have now set up our environment variables. We will just wait until these, as I said that, we've now finished deploying all of our resources. So now, let's go ahead and get started. Okay. So now we are in the main Python script. So let's begin with understanding what we're learning in this unit. We are going to be doing multi-agent handoff pattern. In the prior unit, the script had a single agent that used MCP to discover and call tools from an MCP server. However, this agent, it could not transfer conversations to specialized agents. So there was no conversation transfer happening. In this unit, we are going to learn in detail about the handover pattern, or the handoff pattern. This is a multi-agent, and multi-agent orchestration, a multi-agent pattern, where one agent transfers control to another specialized agent, passing the full conversation history to maintain context. We'll also learn about agent classes. Here, separate Python classes for different agent roles will be created, such as an agent class for support, and an agent class for billing. We'll also be learning about the handoff tool. This will be a specialized tool that allows the LLM to request transfer to another agent. This is probably the most fun part about handoff. It's actually taking the tooling concept and using it to do a multi-agent pattern. It's what I like about the handoff pattern. And then we'll also be learning about our router function. This is a function that would direct user messages to the currently active agent. Now let's continue going through the script. Here, we're going to be loading in all of our important classes and packages. We will be loading our environment variables. Remember, we're only loading in the large language model, not the small language model. We'll load in our config file, and we'll get to authentication. We will authenticate as we normally do. We will instantiate our classes. This will be content safety. We will instantiate our support agent. We'll also instantiate our billing agent, and we will instantiate a conversation router. This is how we will set up the script. The main script logic will be simpler than normal. It is as simple as what I'm showing you right now, just what I'm highlighting. We are moving away from fixed sequential logic where it's just one message with one reply to now more dynamic conversations that can continue indefinitely. This is an important step as we develop more sophisticated and practical agents. We will have a variable user input, and this will just be a demonstration for the script. But most importantly, we will have the main routing happening via this message and a safety check for every response, and we will continuously loop through if the user wants to continue the conversation. Note that in this example, the user can get out by using any of these three keywords. If not, we will keep looping through, getting a response from our agents, and checking the safety of the output. Okay? So now let's go ahead and understand what these classes are actually doing. Okay. So let's have a look. Let's start with the support agent. Okay. So the support agent class in some ways is very simple. We will instantiate it by just ensuring that we give our agent a name. We will also put in what the model is it's going to be using, an open AI client to work with the model, some parameters for the model, and also a bit of context about who the user is that's communicating with the agent. Now, we're going to be creating system instructions separate for every agent. So now it's not a universal system instruction. It's an agent-based system instruction. Here, we're going to say you're a support agent, making it very clear. And then you're going to be helpful and knowledgeable about products and policies. We're going to talk about boundaries, as we normally would. So persona, boundaries, the same pattern that you've seen before. But we are also going to introduce tools. Now, we will go through this in more detail in this unit, but let me introduce it. We're going to make sure that tools and handoffs are together the same thing. We're going to define a tool called handoff to billing. And we're going to tell it when to use this tool so the agent knows when to hand off the billing. When the user asks for a refund, about billing or charges, user asks to change payment method, or user asks for invoices or receipts. And when you hand off, you need to summarize what the user needs in the reason parameter. And then after handing off, the billing agent will take over the conversation. So the tool is going to be a tool that you're actually already familiar with, a tool from the tools unit, a tool from the MCP service. Handoffs use tools as well. And we are giving the tool a name, some parameters, et cetera. We'll also be handing over the conversation state just to help with the entire logic flow. So now let's define this handover pattern. Well, you might be familiar with this from the previous units. You're going to see that this is a handover pattern or handover pattern tool that we are defining explicitly for the support agent, not to be used by any other agent. It has exactly the tool formatting required by OpenAI client. It has the type function, function, has the tool name, the tool description, and the parameters for the tool, even the required parameters versus the optional parameters for the tool. Everything to describe a tool. This tool is called handoff to billing. And then we give it a description, transfer the conversation to the billing agent. And then we give a parameter or property, which is reason. It must be a string, and it must explain why the conversation needs the billing agent. So we are literally creating a tool for our support agent. So now we can bring both of these together with the universal process message function. So this message will process a user's message and return the agent's response. If the agent hands off, it will return a special handover signal. Let's have a look at that. Here, we build the system instructions, and then we create the messages array. We are also extracting the handoff tool, the definition of the tool. With all of that, we can just call the OpenAI client. It's actually very simple. We call OpenAI client dot chat completions dot create, hand over the model messages, the previous user's message, the model name. We give the tool itself that we want the AI model to have access to, and the choice, the choice if it wants to call the tool. Then we check for the response. And this is very similar to what we saw previously. If the agent wants to call a tool, there will be no content, and it will run all of this. If not, it will just return the content as if it was a normal response without any handover. So this is all very, very familiar, the tool cooling, because that's what we're doing. We're using tools as a trick to use them for handoffs. Now, again, you're familiar, but let's go through it. Let's say we want to call, let's say we want to execute this particular tool. Well, you've got the arguments. You've got the reason. So we put all of the information together, and then we go ahead and we create an updated history. So we create the updated history, and we return a special output. We return none on the first output, and a list of parameters, the handoff to billing agent, reason, updated history. So we're not actually calling the tool here. So this is the biggest difference with using handover pattern versus tool cooling. The algorithm thinks we are calling a tool, but actually we are just returning a very special formatted output. Note the opposite pattern here. If we don't call the tool, the second parameter is none, and the content now is the first output. So we're creating a very special output, and the reason this works is we have another client called the conversation router, and the conversation router will understand what to do with this special output format. So now let's go ahead and look at this conversation router. So if I ignore the serialization, let's look at the conversation router. Well, the conversation router brings in everything. It brings in the content safety, the support agent, the billing agent, and it is what sets off everything, because if we go back to the Python script, you will see it starts off with the router.processMessage, so it is the entrance point to this entire flow to the handover pattern or the handoff pattern. So at the beginning, we initialize it to start with the support agent. So when you start your conversation, the support agent is already the agent of current that you'll be talking to. Now let's understand the process message. Here, the user message will process with the currently active agent, which at the very beginning is the support agent. If a handoff pattern occurs, the agents will switch and the conversation will continue. It will start off by making sure that every new input from the user is safe. Then we go to the if statement. If the current agent is the support agent, then you go straight to running and processing the message from the support agent. You'll put in the user's question plus the conversation history, and we run everything for the support agent. Notice that you see the two outputs, the response and the handoff, where the response is sometimes blank and sometimes the handoff has value, and other times the response has content and the handoff is blank. These are the two outputs that are going from the support agent. If we go back to the support agent as a recap, if a handoff is not occurring, you will get the assistant message dot content. If a handoff is occurring because the support agent has decided by its tool it wants a handoff, you won't get any content, but you'll get a set of information for the handoff itself. So this is how it works. Then we have another if statement. The if statement will be like, well, did you give me a handoff value? If not, then run like normal. Store the user message, store the response, go back and send the response to the user, see if the user wants to keep the conversation going within the while loop. But if there is a handoff, if there is an output and there's not none, then switch the current agent to the handoff agent. So if I go back to support agent, you will see handoff is to the billing agent. So you could even have multiple, many, many different agents, where this might become a parameter output in its own right. And you can manage multiple agents all together here. Here, because there's only one, it is quite simple, but we know it is going to be going to whatever agent was asked of on the support agent, which has to be the billing agent. Furthermore, the conversation history from before, let's have a look at that. One conversation history, the conversation history being the updated history as followed, which is the user message and the reason for the transfer. So the updated history has both the original prompt and the reason for transfer. That now becomes the new conversation history for the conversation to occur. If that happens, we are going to run the process message, which is this very own function itself all over again. And we'll go all the way to the top. We will make sure that everything is safe. And then we'll say, well, now we're not with the support agent anymore. We are with the billing agent to run the billing agent process message. And now let's have a look at what that would look like. Well, it's going to look very similar to before. The billing agent will build system instructions. Let's have a look at that. It now has its own separate system instructions just for the billing agent. This is the one that handles refunds, charges, invoices, and payments. It has similar boundaries and it also has very similar handoff instructions. So you'll find that it becomes very much a loop. Then you want to get the handoff tool. So let's have a look at the handoff tool. It is very similar to before, but it's specific saying handoff to support, not handoff to billing. So it's a very slightly different tool definition. So now we're at the billing agent with the system instructions, the handoffs. Again, we run the OpenAIClient.chat.completions with the tools, with the auto choice, and it's going to decide, do you want a handover? If you do, format all the outputs, return no content, return the handover information. If not, return the final message. So the conversation router, it's not actually executing OpenAIClient. It is just essentially recognizing what the current agent is and if a handoff value has been sent out or not. And it will continue this loop. So it's a really clever way that you can use tools to trick a handoff to occur. And this is the handoff pattern. I think we also need to talk about serializing. Let me just, it's actually another part of the code. We'll talk about this one later. Okay, before we go into that, let me go ahead and demonstrate an example. Okay, so let's execute the script, shall we? Okay, so we are now here. Let me ask a question. Can you please refund my TV? Now, let's see what happens. We started with a support agent. It repeats the question to the support agent. It's, oh, a handoff has occurred. We've moved from the support agent to the billing agent. The reason is the user requested a refund to their TV. The handover completed. We now have a new billing agent. The current agent being the billing agent. The user message, can you please refund my TV? The billing agent has responded with, I can help you with your refund. Can you please provide me with the order number for the purchase? Perfect. You can see now that it has officially successfully managed this handoff. Let's now do one more example. Can you please provide me with the order number? The order number is 123. Okay, it's staying on the billing agent, sending the question. Give it a moment. It can take a little while sometimes. There it is. Thank you for providing me with the order number. Please confirm your refund amount you have requested. So this time, because we stayed within a refund context, a handover did not occur. I actually just deleted the serialization function. I originally needed it when I was building this out, but I didn't anymore. Okay, so now let's go ahead and put some debugs in just to gain a little bit of a deeper understanding if this wasn't too fast. So at the beginning, let's go straight to... I'm thinking I would like to see... Let's go to the support agent. Let's do that. And let's go to the first time we get a response. Let's run this as a debug. Okay, so now we are ready to put in a question. We'll do the same question as before. Please refund my TV. Okay, support agent confirmed. Okay, support agent was the first one. Can you please refund my TV? Great. So now we've got a response. Let's have a look at what this response looks like. The assistant message. Okay, you can see content was none. But there was the desire for a tool call. So let's have a look at what that tool call looks like. You can now see it says handoff to billing. So let me have a look at the handoff tool. Well, we gave the tool handoff to billing. So great. It has successfully done exactly what we hoped for. Let's go ahead now and look inside the next part. Great. The reason the user requests a refund to TV. And this came exactly from the tool outputs on the LLM. Great. Now we can update the history. Let's have a look at this updated history. The updated history shows role, user, content. Can you please refund my TV? This is role assistant content transferring you to billing because the user requests a refund to TV. So great. You've now got this updated history. And this updated history is the history that the billing agent is going to inherit and then continue the conversation from. So technically, it is a three-way LLM conversation. You have the first question prompt. The second prompt is coming from the support agent. And the third will be an output from the billing agent. So it's almost like three people are communicating together in sequence. Perfect. Okay. So this has been a demonstration of how to use multiple agents together with the handover pattern or the handoff pattern. Finally, let's summarize what we have learned. We have learned that this script introduces multi-agent handoff pattern. We learned about agent classes and that using separate classes for different specialized roles is how you can make your agent separate. We learned about the handoff tool, a tool that allows agents to request transfer. And we also learned about conversation router. The conversation router helps you manage which agent is active and handles handoffs. I hope you've learned a lot about the handoff pattern, your first introduction to multi-agent orchestration. In the next unit, we will continue our knowledge of multi-agent orchestration. Thank you so much, and I'll see you in the next unit.

=== ID 33: Unit 12: Multi-Agent û Magentic (Manager) Pattern ===
LENGTH: 16991
Welcome everyone. In this unit, we're going to learn about the magentic pattern, the next part of our multi-agent orchestration part of this course. So, as always, I have gone ahead and deployed my resource group, and I've also deployed our resources via Bicep. These are exactly the same resources as the previous units, so I didn't feel the need to show them again. We've also activated our virtual environment, so we are all ready to go. So, let's get into it. Okay, so, unit 12, the multi-agent magentic manager pattern. In the previous script, we used the hand-off pattern where two peer agents, support and billing, transferred control directly to each other. Here, the agents were aware of each other and could hand off conversation. This is a different pattern. This is a hierarchical pattern where a manager receives all of the user requests and then delegates to specialized sub-agents without the sub-agents knowing each other. So, it's a different pattern. It's not an extension. It's a different pattern. The manager agent is an agent that never directly, but never answers directly, but identifies intent and routes to the correct specialized sub-agent. Now, for this example, we are going to create three sub-agents, specialized agents for refunds, for products, and for accounts that can receive delegated tasks and return results to the manager, and not directly to the user, but returning them to the manager. We're also going to look at some routing metrics, trying to track which sub-agent handles how many requests, and importantly, there's no state transfer. Unlike the hand-over pattern, sub-agents do not receive conversation history. Okay, so let us show that we load in our environment variables, the same as before. We authenticate, the same as before. We instantiate our classes, content safety. Now, we'll go into detail, but we'll instantiate our three sub-agents first, all ensuring that they're using the OpenAI client and the same large language model. And then we'll instantiate the manager agent that will load in all of the sub-agents, itself having to use an OpenAI client and large language model, and then we'll have everything instantiated. The main script is quite simple. It is as simple as starting the user input and using another while loop, where this case, we will take in the user input, check that it is safe, and then send the question directly to the manager agent, and we'll let the manager agent manage all of the processing. So using this while loop, we can ensure that we have a conversation with the manager agent constantly managing these conversations. And then finally, we'll get from the manager agent all the metrics, so we can understand some of the things that have happened in the conversation, how many times each agent has been called, for example. Okay, so let's now go ahead and understand what our agents are with the classes that we've created. Okay, so let's start by looking at just the individual agents, because they are much simpler than the manager agent. Let's start with the refund agent. This is an agent that is a specialist that handles specific types of requests. They do not know, and I emphasize that, they do not know about the other agents. They just receive a task and return a result. To start with, you just need to set up their connection to OpenAI Client and a large language model. Like you normally would, you will build a system instructions. So in this case, you are a refund specialist. Your job is to process refund requests and check for refund eligibility. Give it some boundaries and give it a process. Ask the user for the order number. Check that the order is eligible for refund. Tell the user the refund amount and the estimated processing time. And if it's over $1,000, explain a manager approval is needed. So just a standard system instruction for our specialized refund agent. So this is where we actually call it. The process request will process the refund request and return the result. Then we will return a string response and send it back to the manager. It's actually very simple. Whenever you process the request, it will get the system message. It will append the system instructions with the user's message. And it will run the client. We're not running any tools here. We are just running the client. And then we will turn back the response. So it's actually a very simple agent. System instructions, get a query, send the query, get a response. Simple. All of our agents, like the account agent, will be exactly the same. It'll still build its messages, run the LLM, send a response. For the account agent, it is an account specialist. It's going to handle profile updates, password changes, and account settings. It is going to ask for verification before any changes, guide the user through updating their profile, confirm when changes have been completed successfully, and it will never perform destructive actions without explicit confirmation. Whereas the product agent, this is a product agent that knows about product features, specifications, and comparisons. It will understand what product information the user needs, provide accurate product specifications and features, and if asked to compare products, will list pros and cons for each. It will also recommend the best product based on the user requirements. So three different agents doing three different jobs. So let's now talk about the refund agent. Not the refund, the manager agent. OK. So the manager agent, this is the agent that receives the user's request and delegates it to each of the specialized sub-agents. It does not actually answer the questions directly. It only routes and synthesizes the responses. So to instantiate it, this model, this manager agent still needs to call an LLM. It needs access to the agents and a little bit of extra details like the username. We will also create a metric where we will count how many requests to each agent that we will return later on. So let's talk about the processing of the message first, the very beginning. This is going to process a user message by classifying the intent, which specialist is needed. And then we're going to delegate to the appropriate specialist. Finally, we will return the specialist's response. Now if I collapse this for a second, let's see how it is. It will build some system instructions and create and put the user's message in with the system instructions. So like normal, it's then going to call an LLM. This is the manager agent, to be very clear. This is not the sub-agents. The manager agent itself needs to call an LLM. But what makes it unique is that it is using tools here. This is really similar to the handoff pattern where the agents calls a tool to know if it wants to do a handover or not. That is what's happening here. The manager agent is going to be calling a tool to decide which agent to send a response to. Now if potentially it's decided that it is over, we don't need to call a tool. It will then say it was unable to route. Because that's not how this agent works. This agent needs to do routing. So if it doesn't route and it doesn't choose to do a route, then it's actually going to say unable to undetermined intent, no tool call. This is a situation that we do not want to have. So let's now look at what this tool definition looks like. Here we have created our tool. Now we've actually given the agent three different tools. So let's now look at each of them. The first tool, name, delegate to the refund agent. And then the description is, send the request to the refund agent for refunds or returns. The properties, you need to send the user message. It is via string. And it needs to be the user's original request. Required user message. So we're just creating a tool that says, if you want, you have the choice to delegate to refund. And this will just be almost copied and pasted for the other agents. Delegate to product. Send the request to the product agent. Send the user's original request. And delegate to account. Send the request to the account agent. Give the user's original request. So what you can see is our manager agent is just calling tools. He doesn't really understand. You're the one that knows why it's calling these tools. And then we can execute them. So now, if it wants to call a tool, which it should do every single time, then we can actually see what happens. Well, we get the tool name, the tool we want, which in this case is the agent that we want. We get the user message. We ensure that we get it on the manager agent. And then we run our if statements. Then we can run the delegate to refund function, or the delegate to product function, or the delegate to the account function. So this is how we run it. Now, let's have a look at what these functions do. Delegate to refund. Very simple method. It just basically says, call the refund agent. Run the process request for the refund agent. So now, let's pretend that's happened. Let's go back to the refund agent. Well, now, we've started the execution of processing the request. Here, we will generate the system instructions just for the refund agent. We will embed the user message that actually was the parameter for the tool from the manager agent. And then we will run the refund agent via the LLM and return the response. So now, let's go back to the manager agent. We've now, in the section I'm highlighting, got the response back from the refund agent. That response itself is wrapped around a return, which means we aren't going to, as I'm scrolling down, going to return, I'm not sure which specialist can help with that. Instead, if I get it right, we will be returning the refund agent's response directly. That will then pull you back to the main script. You will now get a response from this entire processing message from the manager agent. And then we will make sure it's a safe response. The user will read that response. And then we'll give the user the opportunity to continue the conversation or to finish it. So it's actually a very simple process, where the manager agent just has three tools and transfers to each of these sub-agents. So why don't we now go ahead and give this a try? OK, so let's now run the debug to gain a deeper understanding. So I'm going to put the debug in just before the manager agent makes its decision. I think it will be here. Perfect. Let's now run our script. OK, the temporary error, as it always is, has kicked off. It's very peculiar what happens here. Something to do with the VS Code extension, the debug pie. OK, give it a second while it corrects itself. Now we can run it again. Now it should be OK. Great. So now you can see the printed output. This system uses a manager agent to delegate to specialized sub-agents. You have the manager agent doing the routing, the refund agent the product agent, the account agent. Now, let's use quit, exit, or buy to end the conversation. And let's put in an if question. So let's do the first one. I want a refund for order hashtag 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. This should now take us to the debug. OK, here we are. So we have now run the manager agent's OpenAI client with the tool choice. Let's now see what the response looks like. OK, content is none, which means it won't be able to do anything. So let's run the debug. And now we can see that the manager agent OK, content is none, which means it wants to use a tool. Which tool does it want? Delegate to refund. We can now see that it wants to delegate to refund. So now let's put in an if statement here. Let's go to the I'm not an if statement, a debug point. Now let's see the tool call. OK, let's look at the tool name. The delegate to refund. Let's look at the arguments. I want a refund for order 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. So it's the original user message. Great. Just needed to confirm that the manager agent has not rephrased the original user's message. OK, now we can run the delegate to the refund. So let's now go to the refund agent, go to the process message. And let's now put a debug in just after the response. So now we've now called the refund agent because it ran this code which delegates to the refund. We're now inside the refund agent. Let's go ahead and look at the system message. You can now see that we have got the URL refund specialist. Perfect. The messages, let's have a quick look. It shows the system message, but it also shows the user message, I want to refund for order. So now, from this model's perspective, it's got everything it needs to do to run a query as normal. Let's go ahead and now look at the content. Of that response. Thank you for providing your order number. I will check the eligibility for your order, et cetera. Perfect. Now let's go to the next stage. We're going to return that result. Let's turn off all of these statements. Let's actually go back to, I'm just thinking of going, I want to go back to the manager agent. So I want to go to the response again. We should now be going back to the user input. And then I'm going to put in a question that makes us go back to this debug statement. Let it keep executing. Taking a bit longer than I expected. Ah, it's waiting for a response. OK, great. Can you actually tell me the pros and cons of a 70 inch TV? So now I'm asking a totally different question. Let's now see what the manager agent does. In theory, if everything has gone well, we shall be routed to the product agents now. So let's go ahead and have a look. OK, let's look at the message. Perfect. We are now delegating to product. That's exactly what I wanted to see. So I hope you can see now that the manager agent is calling tools and is helping to manage all of this. Let's now turn off all these debugs. And let's do some end-to-end testing. OK, let's execute it. So let's run the script without any debugging. OK, I want a refund for order hashtag 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. OK, so the manager has decided we are delegating to the refund agent. And the refund agent has responded. Thank you providing the order number. I will now check if this order is eligible for a refund. Please give me a moment. Actually, I want to know the pros and cons of a 70 inch TV. OK, so now let's see what the manager agent does. Sometimes it's a little bit slow. I haven't actually quite figured out why it can be this slow. I don't know if it's the LLMs. I don't know if it's something to do with my environment. OK, that took a little while. I believe the manager agent took a long time to make the decision or there was a potential latency problem with a connection error with the large language model. I believe there is still some latency problems because it is taking a long time. I believe the product agent is taking a while to respond. Very peculiar. I'm just going to turn on and off the full screen. No, it is not a problem. Oh, very peculiar. We got a response. Oh, we got a very long response from the assistant. That might be why it took so long. This makes sense. So now we've got a long set of pros and cons. Unfortunately, I pressed enter and I caused a bug to occur where I know what's happened here. There was a null text for content safety and the content safety app had an error message. But great, you can now see that even with our second message, the manager delegated us to the product agent and the product agent gave us a very deep response. This means we've not set up the max tokens, which means we would probably need to implement this because as you can see, we've got a very long response and this is not what I was hoping for with this demonstration. But great, I think you have seen enough now to see how we can use the magentic manager multi-agent pattern. You now understand that the manager agent routes requests to specialized agents and never answers directly. The sub-agents, they are the ones that handle each specific domain and they're the ones that respond. There's also no state transfer. The conversation history doesn't get sent to each sub-agent unlike handle. You can actually do a combination of handoff and magentic manager multi-agent pattern, but that would be quite complicated that I don't feel like we need to do as it is not examinable. But it is a possible thing you could do. There's also routing metrics. Now, actually, we never saw that because of the error message that occurred. But what would happen is very clearly is we would be counting every request to every different sub-agent and we would return all of those results. And finally, we've learned about hierarchical control. You've learned about how a manager knows about sub-agents, but the sub-agents don't know about each other or the manager. Again, if you want the sub-agents to know about each other, you would need to do a combination of the handoff pattern with the magentic pattern to be able to do state conversation transfer while still using a manager agent. But that is not examinable, so we're not going to talk about it. OK? Thank you so much, and I'll see you in the next unit.

=== ID 34: Unit 13: Sequential vs Concurrent Agent Execution ===
LENGTH: 20192
Good morning, everyone. Welcome to our next chapter or our next unit, where we're going to talk about sequential versus concurrent agent execution. Let's get started. Let's ensure that you have created your virtual environment, that you have activated it. There we go. Load it in and make sure that the requirements have, the packages have all been installed. Furthermore, let's make sure that you have your resource group deployed and all your resources deployed. I have gone ahead and already done it, but let me quickly show you what those resources look like. We will just be loading in the Foundry project and the large language model. We won't be even loading content safety in this demonstration. And we'll be loading in the GPT 4.1 mini model. Perfect. Great. If we look at the environment variables, we will be loading in the unit 13 environment variables. So all is pretty simple. Everything should be all good to run. So let's go ahead and start reading our Python script. Okay. So sequential versus concurrent agent execution with LLM calls. Now, I say this because you can run sequential versus concurrent functions without needing LLMs to be called. But in this case, what is the point of doing this unit or this course if we're not using LLMs? So we're going to ensure that as we run these sequential and concurrent functions, they will actually be executing LLM calls. In the prior unit, we learned about how you can create a manager agent that delegates the sub-agents and then all operations would run after each other or one after another sequentially. There was no ability to run multiple independent tasks at the same time. So in this unit, we're going to go through another way to do sequential execution, where another way of organizing how one task run after another. For example, when the output of task A is needed for task B. And then I'll show you the concurrent. The concurrent execution is when multiple tasks run at the same time using the asyncheal.gather function. This is when tasks are independent and don't need each other's results. We'll also be looking at dependency. So we'll be detecting dependency, analyzing where the tasks outputs flow into other tasks. We'll look at timeout handling, setting the maximum wait time for concurrent tasks, as well as partial failure handling, the allowing of the continuation of the overall execution of the functions, even if some of them fail. So the way we're going to work is we're going to use three classes today. We've grouped up all of our LLM executions into the LLM calls class. And then we've got a class for sequential and a class for concurrent. Let's look at the configuration. We load in our environment variables and config file. We authenticate as we always do. And now we're going to instantiate our classes. Here for our large language model agent, we will load in the normal inputs, the OpenAI client, the large language deployment name, the config file. And then we will load in and set up our sequential and our concurrent agents. So now we are ready to start looking at the examples we're doing today. Example one, concurrent. And example two, sequential. So let us very briefly talk about the concurrent. In the concurrent, we are going to use Asyncio. This is important. You need to know this one for the exam. We're going to use Asyncio to run multiple independent LLM tasks at the same time for efficiency. So what is Asyncio? Well, it's a Python library. It helps you write concurrent code using the async slash wait syntax. It allows us to run multiple LLM calls simultaneously without blocking the main thread. Let's very briefly look at it. Because in some ways, once you've got your concurrent agent set up, it's very easy to configure. You essentially get to describe all of your tasks by this particular formatting. You get a function. In this case, a large language model with a get weather function. We'll look at that in detail. You'll pass in your arguments directly and any description. The description, I believe, is just for yourself to understand. So this is describing one LLM call. Your second one will be your concurrent or your independently run LLM agent. It will run get exchange rate with its arguments. So now by doing this formatting, you can then get it all to be run concurrently, which means both of these tasks are going to be run at the same time independently of each other. Because of the way we've formatted all this, you can add other tasks as long as you've set up your agent function to run very simply with arguments. You're good to go. You can run and put in as many tasks as you want. I'm showing you this formatting because for sequential, we're going to use a very similar set of formatting. So let's explain the sequential. For the sequential, we run tasks one after another with a sink here, passing the results from one unit or one function to the next. This is necessary if task B needs the output of task A. Now let's have a look. Here we have the same as before for the first task. Our LLM trying to analyze the sentiment of a particular piece of text. Not a problem. But the second one, this has to run after this one. This one is trying to say based on the response of the sentiment, give another response. Based on the result of the previous sentiment analysis, give a response. Now in this case, we are using a special thing called kworks to help us put in the previous sentiment results plus the original user's question. So now we're using these to help tell the function here you need to wait. You need to wait for the previous task. So why do we have kworks and not just arguments? Well, kworks is going to allow us to specify special instructions for how to pass results between the tasks. Here, use previous results tells the agent to take the results of the previous task and pass that as an argument to the current task. Whereas use original arg allows us to pass the original input user text to all tasks, even if they are not the first task. This way we can have a chain of tasks where each one uses the original input and the results of the previous tasks as needed. Finally, with these tasks for the sequential running, we run the same as syncio.run as we did before. Let me just show you. See, same as syncio.run, but before it was concurrentagent.run. Here it is sequentialagent.run. So now let's go ahead. Let's go into these classes to try and understand exactly what they are doing. Okay, let's go ahead and look at the concurrent class. No, actually the LLM course class because this is going to be used for both and it is a lot simpler. So here we are. We have not much going on this time. We have essentially all main applications of an LLM that we've just forced into these functions just to make it work. But we have a main LLM call that we've had to put into this class. Note that everything now has a sync. So this is a new difference to what we had before. Now look at our LLM. We are running the normal LLM command. This openai-client.chat.completions.create as we are used to. But we are wrapping it, or rounding and await a syncio2 thread. This is important because this means that we can now execute multiple calls to the LLM without having to wait for any single response to occur before we run the next one. So we now have the choice if we want to run them sequentially or concurrently. So we've just created essentially a wrapper around the LLM call to allow us to run a syncio code. Perfect. Now, just for this quick example, let's look at getWeather. So we're just going to put together a prompt. We're going to keep it very simple and we're going to call the LLM the prompt. In this case, please provide the current weather or whatever city we provide. Very simple. We're not trying to do anything crazy for this example. We're just trying to show you LLM calls concurrently and sequentially. Same for getExchangeRate. Here's a simple prompt with two inputs. AnalyzeSentiment is also very simple. Analyze the sentiment of any text given. Meant to be quite simple. The generate the response is a little bit more complicated. It's again still a prompt. This one has two inputs and we know that one of them will be the output of the other function here. Other than that, they're very simple. So now let's look at concurrent. Here we are going to define our class. So it's actually very simple. We've just got one function to execute. Here we can run multiple tasks at the same time and the total time will be the time of the slowest task. You can do this when tasks are independent and that means there's no dependencies between them. So we're going to be using this function here to collect all of our functions and put them into what's called coroutines and then we will execute them. So let's explain what this is doing. So we're going to build a list of coroutines to run concurrently. What are coroutines? Well, they are special functions defined with async def, which is what we did earlier. If I go back to the LLM course, all of these functions are defined with async def. Very important. So concurrent are special functions defined with async def that can be paused and resumed. So it's very powerful in that way, allowing for concurrent execution. Here we can create a list of coroutines by calling each other's functions with arguments. So it's a little bit of a wrapper for all of the tasks that we have previously shown to be inputting. Just a reminder, we show the concurrent, these are the tasks. So these tasks are going to be converted into coroutines. Then we can essentially execute them using the asyncio.gather. This is important for the exam disk command, so please memorize it. But what does asyncio.gather do? Well, very simply, it takes in multiple coroutines or multiple async functions and allows you to run them concurrently. We've also wrapped it around an asyncio.waitful. This is important because it wraps an awaitable and asyncio.gather is an awaitable, there we go, like the result of asyncio.gather and raises a timeout if it takes longer than the specified timeout. So this just helps us with timeout, but the asyncio.gather, this is doing the main job. Importantly, return exceptions. This was a little command we added in that says if an error occurs, still return that exception as a final result. And that should be really everything. Recurrent is pretty simple. It is a little complicated creating the coroutines and running the asyncio.gather. Once you've done that, it just executes all the functions. Finally, there's just a little bit of code here to help us count how many successful results occurred and how many failed results occurred. Not too complicated. And then finally, you return the concurrent execution, all of the successful results, as well as how long it ran for. Simple as that. It looks complicated, but it's really just a bunch of formatting to help you run your functions in any order, paused, resuming, etc. So now you can see, we have our tasks, calling our agents, the arguments for each of those particular functions, a description just for us to understand, not for the LLM, and then we can run it. We can run them at the same time now. Okay. So now I'll get back to you and we will do the sequential code. Okay. So let's now look at the sequential code. So here we have described our sequential code. Now let's go into the sequential class. Again, we've just got one function in this one, but it's in async def. Here, we're going to be running tasks one after another. The total time will be the sum of all tasks. Here, we'll use this when tasks have dependencies and we were going to support the previous result and the original argument as dependent tasks via special keys in KBugs. Use previous result, use original argument. So at the beginning, we're going to store the first task's main argument. That's fine. That's just a little bit of helper code. We're then going to be running this function here. This is a little bit of code that is going to help us so that we can then execute everything with the dependencies. It's a little complicated, but at the end of the day, this is the line of code that executes the function. Here's each function with its arguments and its KBugs. Let's explain what this is doing. We're going to loop through each task in the list of tasks. So that is here. We're going to list, we're going to go through all of the tasks. For every task, we're going to print a header indicating which task we're starting. Here, there we go. Then we're going to check if the task has any special instructions in its KBugs for using previous results or the original argument. We're going to be checking for previous results or use original arguments. We're going to check this in the KBugs for the task. If the task wants to use previous results, let's have a look at that. In this case, there is no KBugs, so you don't want to. But for this one, we do, we've put KBugs and we do want to use the previous result. If the task wants to use the previous result and we have one, we add that to the KBugs for the current task. So let's see that. Previous result. We're going to now add the previous result as an argument. So at the end of the day, the function will be executing this as an argument to the function. But we're using the KBugs just to make it more transparent what we're sending and what we're not sending. If the task wants to use the original argument, which is a separate thing, and we have it, also add that. Let's have a look at that. If we want to use the original result, add this as an argument or to KBugs argument. So here we are, we're just searching if these things exist. Finally, we now have everything prepared to run the tasks function with its arguments and KBugs. We can then await for the results and append it to our results list. So with everything prepared, we've now got our task arguments prepared, our task KBugs prepared, we can run the function. And then because there's a loop, we will append the results sequentially. And finally, we will calculate the total time elapsed. It's not too complicated. Running code sequentially and concurrently is not too tough, as long as you've got your code set up to run them as functions defined in the way that we're describing. So now you can see that we can execute the first task and that this task ensures with the KBugs that we're going to be including the previous results. Great. And now, because everything has been running via sync here, we can now run it. So now let's go ahead and actually execute our code. Let's see what actually happens. Okay, so let's go ahead now and execute our code. So how about we put in a debug into the concurrent just to make sure everything is working as expected. Let's put it in for getWeather. We'll put it in just before the calling of the LLM. I will put it in here. Let's do that. So we'll go back to the main script. What we're going to aim to do is call the getWeather via this particular formatting. I'm going to be running async here. This will be independent. It'll be interesting to see how the debugger works for the async here. Okay, let's have a look. Here we are, executing the script. Okay, we're running them independently. Because of the async here, I don't believe it is. Oh, no, it has worked. Interesting. Because it's independently run, even though I've done this, technically, we should still have the other one functioning as well. You are the weather assistant. Very interesting. Great. Let's have a look at our response. I'm unable to provide real-time weather updates. That's okay. You've learned from previous units how we could put in tool access to allow it to get weather access. Okay, let's continue. I believe it has now gone to the second LLM. Yes, you are a financial assistant. Great. Let's have a look at the response. Oh, it actually has given me a response. That's interesting. It's definitely not real-time, but it's given us a response. Let's now finish this off. Oh, very peculiar. Why would it happen again? Ah, I know why it's happening again. We are now doing the sequential coding. So let me pause that here. Let's pause it here. And let's now go ahead and put in a debug before the sequential even runs so we can see the outputs of the concurrent without the debug. Okay, let's run. Okay, so now let's see everything for the concurrent running without the debug stopping so we can see the outputs. Running total time. Time will be the time of the slowest task. We're running both tasks. They're both executing. Neither have finished yet. We've executed both of them at the same time. Interestingly, the first one to finish was the exchange rate one. Even though we actually created this as the second task, that one finished first. Beginning weather for London, that is still taking some time. So this is one of the great things about concurrent is the order of finishing is independent. We don't know which will finish first. Strangely, the weather one is taking a long time. I wouldn't expect that. Taking a bit longer than I would have expected. Okay, we had a timeout. Very unexpected. I believe, I believe nothing was actually wrong from what I can tell. We've not got a major error. It's just we got the timeout error. As I said, there you go. We actually got everything to finish now. But, yes. Let me increase the timeout and let's run this again. Okay. Let's run this one more time. With increased config. We're going to make it 120 seconds. Okay. Let's run it. Let's see what happens. Now, if you didn't notice, I've got a bird. The bird just flew past the camera. But, please ignore it. Okay. So same as before, we're getting an execution. We might unexpectedly be having a problem. We have, in my config file, I've set, set the max tokens to be 150. I might actually make this even less to ensure that it is faster. Okay. The weather one is taking much longer than I expected. It's using the same LLM prompt. Keep response under 50 words. I don't understand why this would fail. In fact, we saw earlier, we got a response from GetWeather. Ah, perfect. It just took a little while. I was impatient. We've now got all our responses. I was impatient. We've now got all our responses. We got the USD. We got the, sorry, we got the exchange rate. We got the real-time update. It was very good to see how one was very fast and one was very slow. And our total time was 69 seconds. So this has been an example of how to run our code concurrently. Let's now go ahead and do an example of running it sequentially. Okay. So I'm just going to comment out this code. Probably the fastest way to do it all. Let's now run our code sequentially and see what the outputs look like. Okay. So now we are analysing the sentiment of I love this product. We've started it. It doesn't mean we've finished it. We've now finished that prompt. We've got the response. Now we're starting the second one, generating a response based on the sentiment. This is working exactly as expected. We'll give it some time. I'm questioning if I've done anything wrong in my code to make the second response, the second functions take so long to execute. But I don't think so. We'll just give it some time. Okay, great. It is finished. We've now completed our response. Now look, we didn't print the response out for us in the console here, but we've now run both tasks sequentially and it took 65 seconds. So now you can see that in our previous example, it took us about 68 seconds to run two tasks concurrently, where one task took a long time. In this case, it took 65 seconds to run two tasks sequentially. I hope now you understand how you can run code in these two different formats using some classes to help you do it. We learned about a concurrent agent to run tasks in parallel for efficiency. We learned about sequential running, where you can pass results between them. And we learned about task restructurings, how you can define LLM tasks as callables with arguments for flexible execution. Finally, we learned about reusable patterns. Using these agents can help us do this as reusable as we need. Okay. Thank you for watching and I'll see you in the next unit.

=== ID 37: Unit 16: Agent Memory û Long-Term User Memory (Cosmos DB) ===
LENGTH: 21950
Welcome, everyone. We're going to continue with our memory units. We learned about Redis memory and how it can help us save conversation history. Now we're going to learn about longer-term history using Cosmos. And in this case, we're going to be looking at saving the user preferences. Now, to give perspective, when ChachiBT first got released, there was no user preferences being saved. It was only your conversation history. Every single conversation, you started from scratch, only retaining the history of the conversation. But then at some point, they released an update where your profile essentially gets updated and maintained between your conversations. And then it meant that all of your conversations became more and more personalized with their responses to what you as a user want. You might potentially want an agent that is replying more empathetically or more scientifically and objective. It adjusted its preferences based on how you were talking to it. So today, we're going to show you how we can start that setup. Okay. So first, let's deploy our resources. Just making sure we have set everything up. Yes. Okay. Now, let's go ahead and have a look at what this Bicep file looks like because it is actually going to be quite complex, as in there's quite a lot going on with it. So we are still going to be deploying the resources we're used to. The AI project, I mean, the AI Foundry, its project, content safety, and Redis. But we're also going to be adding on our Cosmos resource. And with that Cosmos resource, we are also going to be building the database for Cosmos and the container for Cosmos. So we're now actually building up quite a complex Bicep file with a lot of resources being deployed. If I skip down to the bottom, because nothing else has changed from the previous unit, we now have added in our Cosmos DB resource. Here, we will include everything we need in order to make this as free and zero cost as much as possible, which will be perfect for development. We will then deploy a database within Cosmos DB, and we are going to be deploying the container. Now, very importantly for the container, we're going to be using a partition key of slash user ID. If we don't get this partition key correct, as I actually did during my testing, we won't be able to send anything or retrieve anything correctly from the container. So I'm making a special emphasis that partitions are always important for Cosmos DB, but I'm emphasizing that this is the partition key that we are using. We also need to remember that indexing is automatic with Cosmos DB, but I have put in some parameters to control it, and the indexing will be a composite index of the user ID and the timestamp in which we are inserting all of our user preferences. Furthermore, we will be putting in a default time to live of 90 days. Again, Cosmos DB is a long-term data storage, not a short-term. So by doing this, we set it to 90 days to keep that long-term history. Finally, we have our outputs. In this case, just as before with Redis, we are going to be putting in essentially the copying or the components for a container string. It is not the most secure method, just as I'm just making that point very clear, but we will get the endpoint, the database name, the container name, and the primary key to authenticate without needing to use default zero credential. Okay. Now, because we are deploying a lot of resources, the Bicep file does take some time to execute, so I'm going to pause the recording and get back to you when all of the resources have deployed. Okay. So now, finally, all the resources have deployed. Let's now go ahead and get our environment variables out of them. So get our deployment outputs. Okay. Here they all are. So now we're going to go into the launch.json file, and I'm going to put in all the factors, the Redis port. Actually, just make it a little bit easier to see. Okay. So we are going to be adding all those in to the Redis host name. The access key. Again, I will be deleting my resources after this video, so you won't be able to use my Redis. LLM deployment name. Here we have the Cosmos primary key. Database name. The database endpoint. Well, actually, the Cosmos endpoint. The container name. And the content safety endpoint. Okay. Right. So now we've put in all of our environment variables. Let's go ahead now and look at our main Python script. So let's start with another summary. We're going to be working with agents with mem, and we are now introducing long-term memory. We are going to be storing user preferences in history across multiple sessions, and that sessions refers to short-term conversations. So the agent remembers returning users between conversations. Cosmos DB, for those who need a recap, is a globally distributed NoSQL database that provides persistent storage with automatic indexing and time to live. We are going to be storing a user profile that's going to persist across the conversations, and we're going to be using hybrid memory. We're going to be combining the short-term memory that we learned previously with the long-term memory. So that way we have the preferences at conversation start, and we have the short-term conversations during every single session. We also are going to be using the partition key, a field that will determine how data is distributed across Cosmos DB. And we're going to be using, it's actually not user underscore ID, it's user ID. That's the old bug that I accidentally previously had. We'll be using user ID as the partition key for the performance of our Cosmos DB container. Okay. So let's start with authentication. We need to install the Cosmos package. I have already gone ahead and done that and put that into your requirements.txt so you can install that readily. We will be creating multiple classes today or one new class, the Cosmos memory class. And then our agent with memory class is going to be loading in both the memory class and the Cosmos memory class. So here we load in the extra class. We're going to get all of our environment variables. We are going to authenticate to our LLM, to our OpenAI client and our content safety client. We will connect to Redis. And now the new code is we will be getting the Cosmos database client. With the endpoint in the primary key, we will get access. Now, what you need to then do is you need to get your database client to eventually get your container client. So here, once you have your Cosmos DB client, you can then put in the database to get the database client. And the dot read here, this checks if it actually, we have a connection successfully retained. If you get a failure here, something has gone wrong with your connection. Assuming that has gone successful, then we can get the container client. And again, we check to make sure that we can read that container client. With that, we have now got all of our clients prepared. We can now instantiate the classes. We'll instantiate the content safety class. We'll instantiate the Redis short-term memory class. And we will instantiate the Cosmos long-term memory class with all three of the clients, the config. Then with our agent with memory class, we can put in the other two or actually technically three instantiated classes. So that way our agent with memory has everything that it needs to run. Now, let's actually hold on. Let me change this message. I'm trying to refund my broken TV. Perfect. Let's start from the beginning. And now everything will look very similar to before. We will have our user message. We will check if it's safe. We will build our system instructions like before dynamically. And then this will be where the main workhorse happens. We are going to try and get a response from our agent. Now, what's new here is the user ID. We need to create a user ID that we can reference to get that all of the user preferences back. So your application needs to be able to handle this. For chat GPT, your user ID may be your username or your email that you log in with. You can actually use emails as your user ID here. We have our session ID, which is like our conversation ID. So this needs to change with every conversation. But this needs to stay the same as long as you're the same person for all of the conversations. That way you retain your long-term history, and you can change between your short-term history. Now these are both Redis functions that we learned previously, but this is a new one. Here I am showing an example of how you can update the long-term history. We will go through this later. And then that should be everything. Then you check if the reply is safe, and it works. So let's go ahead now and look at the Cosmos DB class to try and gain a deeper understanding to what it's doing behind the scenes. Okay, so Cosmos DB with memory. So let me collapse all the functions. Okay, so here is our Cosmos DB memory class. We are going to be storing the long-term user memory with Azure Cosmos DB. We're going to store preferences, past orders, settings, et cetera. It's whatever you want to be parsing. At the beginning, we are going to just initialize the class. That is fine. Now we have some functions within this that we can use. We can get the user profile, save the user profile, update the user profile, and a debug that I created because when I was having some problems, I needed this to understand what was happening. Now for the get, we are going to take in the user ID, which in this case is Luke.gin, and we will be supplying that in this case as the item and the partition key to read in the user profile. So we're going to get the container client. I'm emphasizing we're getting the container client, not the Cosmos DB client. But with the container client, we can then write .read, and then we can put in the user ID with its correct partition key and the item, and you will return the result from the Cosmos DB database. We will now have in everything associated with the user preferences. It will be a JSON format, for example. If a failure happens, it's going to tell you if no profile exists for the user. That's what I was getting previously happening. I was getting consistently no profile loading, and that was because I had the formatting of the partition key wrong. Okay, so it's quite simple. You just need to know that it's .readitem for sending information to Cosmos DB, and that you've got to get your partition key correct. Now I'll show you saving. Here is a format for what the data is going to look like in Cosmos DB. So here my profile has an ID, a user ID, a preferences that we're going to show you later. This can be a complex object, the last updated, and the time to live. So this will be the profile that we will be sending and getting back from Cosmos DB. You then can essentially send it because we are saving the user profile. You will do the container client upsert item. Again, that's a very important line of code that you need to know about. Now you can update preferences. This is another way of doing the same thing. Here it's actually calling the save user profile. So it's actually not doing anything different. Here we are getting the current profile, and if there are any key value pair that we want to update, which I'll show you an example of, we update then the profile and then save it. So really, the getting and the save are doing all the work here. Very briefly, I will show you the debug. It will help you find all items in your container to see what you've actually got. It will do some tests to check if you've got the partition key correct. It will do a query to make sure to see all of your different items. It will also try and find any specific profile if you have a profile ID of interest. In this case, I've put in my profile ID. So this is everything. Now, you can use these to then put this into your agent. So let's go ahead and show you how we are using this class in our agent. Okay. So let's now go ahead and look at our agent with memory. So you should already be relatively familiar with this. We are just adding in a few new functions. We initialize it with the Cosmos DB, the Redis memory, OpenAI client, et cetera. Now, here I will actually skip over this. I will get back to it later. Okay. So below here, this is all functions associated with Redis that you are already familiar with. And let's look at the processing of the message. Now, I'm going to just make this smaller. The only difference is we are going to be modifying the code that I'm highlighting. We've added the code in, and I'm highlighting right here. Outside of that, I'm just checking. Nothing is different. It's actually very similar. So at the beginning, we are going to load all of the conversation history in the state. Then what we are going to do is we are going to load in the information from Cosmos DB. So at the very beginning, it's all very simple. We're just loading everything in from our two storage locations, our short-term and our long-term. When we get our user preferences, we are just going to make sure that we actually have a value. Because if we've never, if this is the first conversation a user is having, there will be no user preferences. So we will just give our user the default preferences and save them a profile. So that's a very simple little catch that does need to happen for first-time users. From there, we have the user preferences. So what are we actually going to do with it? Well, here we are going to update our system instructions. We are going to create an extension of the system instructions prompt that will contain the user preferences. Let's have a look at that. So in this case, I'm going to extract a few bits of information, like the temperature, the user preference for temperature, and put it into a more readable format like Celsius or Fahrenheit. And then we're just going to take the system instructions and essentially append in a slight modification or an extension. We will call this section user preferences, and we'll put in temperature, default address, past orders, the language. We can put in whatever we want. And then we'll tell the LLM to use these preferences to personalize your responses. For example, report weather in the user's preferred temperature unit before changing preferences. Amazing. So it's really quite simple, and you can add in as much complexity as you think might be needed for your application. And that complexity could be, do we want to be updating system instructions as well as changing messages, or do we want to be changing what we are saving as user preferences? We can do a lot here. So we process our message. We update our system message. If it's the first time we've started this conversation, we will add in this modified system instruction. If not, then technically we are not going to do anything. Yes, we will load in the user preferences, but that won't be changing anything if we are continuing our conversation. And then we execute the LLM, as we always do. We get the reply. We then send the returned results back to Redis. Now, technically, we could add in an extra stage here where we have potentially another LLM, like a small LLM that is trying to detect user preferences. And it might actually go ahead and look at the last response or the last message the user sent and the entire conversation, and it might change what the user preferences are. And then we could go ahead and we could update them by writing cosmos memory save user profile. Now, we've not done that because I'm trying to show a simplified example, but you could use another LLM to help you calculate what these user preferences are. You might also only want to do this on a particular period, such as for every 10 messages, re-evaluate the user's preferences. That way we are not spending a lot of money running an LLM just to update user preferences. Okay. I think we have pretty much everything we need now to run it. It's not that difficult. Okay, so let's run it. Let's run our main script and let's see what happens. Let's run our script. We are trying to get a refund for broken TV. I'm going to change my session ID to 123 and I'm going to give myself a different name. I'll just give myself a one. I want a completely clean slate. We could make these actual variables so I don't have to manually do this. Let's run it. Now, what we're going to do is we're going to put in our system instruction. Then we're going to change the user preferences later on. But to begin with, let's go ahead and put a debug inside our cosmos memory. Actually, no, we'll put it, yes, in cosmos memory. Get user. Cool. I'm going to put the debug in right here. Okay. Let's execute the code. This is a new conversation with a new user profile, so there shouldn't be any history. Okay, here we are. Let's show our user ID. Luke.gin1. Perfect. Let's see if we get a response. No, we don't. We get an error message, which is exactly what I was expecting. We don't have any existing data for the user, so that's where the except comes in, and we will say there is no profile for this user. That's exactly what I was expecting. Okay. Now, let's go and put in another one. Let's put it in just before we save the profile. Okay. Okay, so let's see what we're actually going to be inserting directly into the up insert profile. Okay, so you are going to see my ID, but also my user ID, my preferences, and here you will see by default it is the temperature unit Celsius with no previous address and past orders. You can't see it in this perspective. There are no past orders, and my preference is English. Now, these default preferences, they need to be coming, if I'm not mistaken, from the agent with memory. There it is. Here is a simple function to get the default preferences. Here we are. So here we have this profile in this formatting, and that is exactly the format that Azure Cosmos DB's client is going to need. We can now run this and we can send it. Okay, we got a successful response. So now let's go ahead and rerun it for when we are getting the profile. Okay, let's run this now. Okay, here we are. Now, now that we have up-inserted it, we should get a response. Perfect, no error message. Let's see exactly what was returned. Okay, did we get exactly the same data that we inserted earlier? It also includes the time to live, the last updated, which is exactly a few. I'm just looking at that. That was exactly two minutes ago. So everything is in there. Perfect. So now we've demonstrated how you can use up-insert item and read item to send and get data for Cosmos DB. Okay, now I think we do a full end-to-end execution. And I also want to show you what happens when we change the user preferences. Let's do that. Okay, so we are going to run this script one time. Let's see all the outputs and knowing that we're going to be updating the user preference as well. Okay, our message has been saved. We have loaded the profile for loop.gin1. Okay, we've loaded the profile. We've got a response. We've checked it for safety. Hi there. I can help you with your refund for your broken TV, et cetera, et cetera. So we've got a response for the LLM. Great. So it's a fully working end-to-end with the loaded loop profile. Let me now go ahead and put in that debug statement in one more time. I want to see that it's updated to Spanish. Okay, here we are. Let's get the response. Perfect. If you look at my profile, you will now see my language is Spanish. Very interesting. Now, I've actually not tested this, but let's see if the response from our agent is in Spanish. I wonder if we'll get confused because the user message was in English, and if the preferences are in Spanish, I'm not sure the LLM is going to decide what to do. Okay, it's still returned in English. I would probably need to do more modification to the prompt, so let me do that. There it is. If the language preference is the language... No. The language preference is the language. Okay. If the language preference is the language, the language preference is the language that I need returned to the user, that I need returned to the user, user in. Always respond in that language if specified. Yes. You can safely ignore the language of the user message and respond in the language specified in the preference. Perfect. Let me make this a bit all on one line or actually on multiple lines I meant. Okay. Now that I've changed the prompt, let's see what happens. So we know our preference is Spanish now. Okay. Oh, it still didn't work. How unusual. Well, this would probably require a lot more debugging to force to occur, but I hope you can understand now how we are using the user preferences with Cosmos DB and connecting it also with the short-term readers memory. So now let's summarize everything we have learned. We have learned how to introduce long-term user memory with Cosmos DB. Long-term memory is referencing user preferences that can occur across multiple sessions or conversations. Cosmos DB is a globally distributed NoSQL database for persistent storage. Here we are using a partition key of user ID that distributes data evenly across partitions. In this example, we are using a hybrid memory of short-term for readers conversations and long-term for Cosmos DB. Here we are using a user profile where we are loading the preferences before the conversation and saving on any changes. And we looked at the time to live that will auto-delete inactive user profiles to manage cost. That's important. I never mentioned this. The time to live gets reset with the user preference consistently, which means if the user profile has been having conversations, those user preferences are going to be retained. But if the user hasn't been talking to this agent or this solution for 90 days, then we will delete the user preferences. Perfect. That is everything you need to know about Cosmos DB. Thank you so much for listening, and I'll see you in the next unit.

=== ID 38: Unit 17: Multimodal Integration û Vision, Speech, Document Intel ===
LENGTH: 20420
Welcome, everyone. In this unit, we're going to learn how we can give our agent multi-modal capabilities. We're going to teach our agent how to analyze an image, how to read files, and how to translate speech into text, or how it doesn't actually do it, but we can use other services to do it for our agents. So first, we need to deploy our resources. Now, I've already gone ahead and deployed them because they took a bit of time, but let me show you what the Bicep file looks like. So, today we are going to be deploying the same AI services that we are used to, AI Foundry, our project, content safety, and one large language model. So, what we are already very familiar with. But we're going to be deploying three other cognitive services outside of what you are used to. We're going to deploy a vision service, a speech service, and a document intelligence service. So, let's have a look further down what that looks like. Okay. So, here we'll be loading in the Azure AI Vision Service for image analysis, giving us optical character recognition, captioning, and other multimodal analysis available. Importantly, this is going to be the free tier. Now, what's very important about the free tier is you could only have one resource of this deployed at a time. And you might say, that's okay, I delete my resources. But it turns out, it's not quite as simple as that. Let me show you. When you run the command, delete my deployment as I'm showing you. I found that it wasn't enough. It is technically a cognitive service, and that has to be deleted manually afterwards. So, I've had to add in three extra lines of code here to delete the vision, the speech, the document intelligence service individually afterwards. That way, we can fully delete it. And that way, we can deploy it again if we do need to for testing, or debugging purposes. So, that is a limitation of the free tier. You can only have one version. But hey, it's completely free for yourselves to use. Same with the next one. We will be loading or deploying an Azure AI speech service. This is a great service that lets you translate speech into text, or turn speech text into speech, or even do speech translation. So, here we are deploying it again with the free tier. In this case, we'll be looking at the speech service in particular. And then, the Azure AI document intelligence service for processing forms, invoices, there we go, forms, invoices, receipts, etc. Again, this will be the free tier. Now, to get access to these, we are going to have the vision endpoint with the vision key. The document intelligence endpoint with the document intelligence key. Now, interestingly for speech, you don't need an endpoint. You just need to give it your region, which was an unexpected differentiation. But you still need to give it a key. So, here we will be using this to connect to our three deployed new services. Okay. Now, I've already gone ahead and deployed the resources, but everything should be ready to go. Okay. Let's now go ahead and have a look. And we're going to start by looking at our basic agent. We'll be using a very basic agent for this example. In this case, what I mean by that, an agent which can process a user message and take in an Azure AI service response to generate a reply using an LLM. So, it's very simple. You instantiate it as you always would. You load in, you process the message, you give it the system instructions. So, we start by creating the system instructions. We append onto that the Azure AI service response, depending on which of the three services we're getting a response from. And then we append in the user's message and we send all of that to our LLM and we get a response. So, this is a really important distinction here, that we might believe that large language models are able to take in an image directly. Now, there are deep learning models that are specially built for taking in images and they actually do have capability such as image classification and image descriptions, etc. But those are not the same as large language models. Large language models, at least in the current version, don't have that functionality by default. So, instead, what you do is you append or you combine other algorithms to do that image analysis for you. You can use the Azure AI service, which itself is likely using a deep neural network behind the scenes or you implement your own custom deep neural network algorithm or your CNN as you might want to call them. And you use those to analyze your images. And then you send that information as text emphasizing the phrase sending as text with a text description to your agent to then use that as grounded information. So, long story short, all we are doing here is we're grounding data. You know, instead of searching for a document in a database, we will be which you can actually do with this if you integrate it properly. We will instead be immediately taking in an object without needing to find it in a database doing a translation of what it is into text and then from the text giving it to the LLM as if it's a grounded piece of content. Okay. So, without all out of the way, let's go ahead and look at what these AI services look like. So, let's look at the main script. With our main script, we are going to be learning about multi-modal integration. Vision, speech, document intelligence, etc. What's new about this unit is we are going to be learning about Azure AI Vision, AI Speech, and AI Document Intelligence. In AI Vision, this is a cloud service that Azure hosts that analyzes images to generate captions and extract text. Whereas Azure AI Speech, it is another cloud service that converts spoken audio to text and text into spoken audio. Document Intelligence is another cloud service that is very good at extracting or being able to extract structured data from documents like invoices, receipts, and ID cards. It's a more like specialized version of AI Vision specifically to structured data. So, we are going to learn how we can integrate all three of these in to give our agents multi-modal integration or capabilities. Now, we load in the appropriate packages. This has already been done for you and it's been sent to requirements.txt We load in all our environment variables. We authenticate as we are used to. And then we authenticate and we get the client access to the other three services. We get our Vision client, we get our Speech client, or in this case it's technically a Speech config, and we get our Document Intelligence client. So then by having all these clients, we can then pass them in to an Azure AI Services class. So let's go ahead and have a look at that Azure AI Services class. Okay. So let's now go ahead and look at our Azure AI Service class. So in our Azure AI Service class, we have all of the functions needed to run our three different Azure AI Services. We will begin by instantiating, in the instantiation, loading in the three clients, the Vision client, the Speech client, and the Document Intelligence client. For the Analyze Speech, let's have a look. Azure AI Vision analyzes image files. It will generate a caption describing the image. Note that this feature is not available in all regions and is unfortunately not available in my region unless I do a downgrade to a prior version. For my region, and most likely all regions, you can do optical character recognition or finding any text found in the image, as well as tags that help you describe the image. The great thing is the tags are close, not perfect, but a close replica of what a caption would be. So you can still use this even if you're in my region. This is very important as I mentioned earlier because our agents or our large language models cannot see images directly. So we're going to use this service to convert the image into some text that then the agent can use as grounded information. Actually, so, first of all, we need to load in the image. Now I've already got an image, so let me show you. In the inputs, I've got an image of a broken TV, a random image on the internet. We are then going to load in this image. Then we're going to call the job itself. We're going to go to visionclient.analyze. We will embed the image data we've loaded in, and then we're going to tell the algorithm which visual features we want returned. Now there's actually a long list of features. There's captions, you could read, which is OCR, get objects, brands, color, faces, you can get a lot of different features, as well as tags. The ones that have worked successfully for me is read and tags, especially for this particular image. As I mentioned earlier, caption was not available for my region. This will now then call the vision client, and it will return a large response. Let's go ahead and actually show you what that looks like. If we go to the main script, we are going to load in and instantiate the class, instantiate the basic Asian class. We're going to create our text, and this is just a very simple text. What do you see in what I've uploaded? That way, we can really ensure that we're not given any bias, we've not mentioned anything about a TV, and then we're going to execute our AI service. I'll go through this function in more detail, but quickly we are just going to be putting in the content path for our image, and it will route us to where I've put the debug. Let's go ahead and do that. We have now got a response. Let's have a look at what that looks like. Great. It is quite a lot. There is quite a large response. I'm purposely making it bigger to see now. You can see the model version, some metadata, so we know the size of the image, and we've got tag results. It said that it is an indoor with a lot of confidence. It is a computer, or it is a display, or it is a display device, an output device. There's a wall, a flap, and it will display an LED blacklit LCD display. You can see a lot of different tags have been returned with confidence scores. It is very good to see that we've had a successful reading of this, and we're going to now convert all of this into a response that our LLM can understand. The way we have to do it is we need to break down this result. Now that I'm thinking about it, you could convert this result just into text and feed in all of this text directly to our LLM. That is actually a possible thing we could do. Instead, what I've done is I've tried to clean it up. I've got some code that looks for certain outputs in this output, and then it formats them so that it looks a little bit cleaner. Let me show you what that would look like. Now we'll have... We've now got some cleaner inputs and cleaner outputs, bringing most of the most important information together, saying there was no caption, no text, and the tags that were detected. This makes it a little bit easier. Then we run this final statement to join it all together into one big string. It's still smaller than what we had previously. We're going to use that string and send it to our LLM as input. It's sad that I don't have a caption because captions are usually far more detailed and far more accurate, but that's okay. Now that you've got the concept of us executing this function, let me talk about the multimodal request. This is just a higher level function to route to the three of these subfunctions or these different multimodals. It is going to look for what the content type is. If it's an image, and if it's an image, it will analyze the image. Or if it's a file, like an MP3 or a WAV file, it will then run speech-to-text. Or if we've said it's an invoice or a PDF, then it will run analyze document. We're going to use this to route what the document type is to the correct algorithm. We will go back to speech-to-text later and analyze documents later. For now, let's run our code and see what happens. Here we are. We're going to be asking what do you see and what I've uploaded. Then we are going to run this algorithm. We're going to get the text response I'm seeing before you. Most importantly, then the basic agent is going to append this response to the messages and then send those messages to the LLM to get a final response. Let's now run this. Let me clean up my outputs. Okay. Okay. We have analyzed the image with vision. The user message passed the safety check. We are now processing the image with the agent. We've sent now the image to the LLM. Look, this is what it says. The image appears to show an indoor setting with a computer setup. It's almost correct. If we have a look at the image, it's actually a broken TV, but that's the limitation of using tags and not captions. At the same time, it is very hard to tell if this was a TV or a monitor for a computer. It thinks it's a flat panel display monitor or another electronic device. It's letting you know it is not fully sure. The environment looks like it could be an office or work station. It's giving us some details. This is good because it definitely tells us that the LLM does understand based on what we've given it, more than just the user message. It has taken in the contents of the image. If I was working for a bigger organization and not just doing a tutorial, I would be having an entire project to ensure that our multimodal services are working as accurately as possible, getting as much information as possible and as condensed as necessary so that our agents can understand what they are seeing. In this example, it is very basic. Now, let's go ahead and look at the next service. Let's go with the voice recording next. In this demonstration, I'll just uncomment some code and we'll show how it works with a voice recording. Note that I had to use a WAV voice recording. I found a limitation with the Azure AI service in where it has some error messages with MP3 file formats. I had to convert it to WAV. You may potentially want in your application to automatically convert these files to WAV because of the limitation I observed. Now, I've got a voice recording that is here. I'm going to show you how we can load this in and get a text translation for you. Let's have a look at the function. Speech to text. Here, we'll be able to take in audio file paths and return transcribed text. This is important because agents can't hear audio directly. You need this tool to help the agent do that transcription and then give the agent text. That means every time you might be talking to Amazon or to Jumini, Google Home, ChatGPT, or with the voice option, actually, a translation is having to happen. Now, in this case, what we're going to do is we are going to get our audio config set up. We are then going to create the speech recognizer. This is very important because if we're creating speech, we will be using the speech synthesizer, but because we are recognizing speech from an audio file, we are using the speech recognizer. We get the speech recognizer configured and then we are ready to perform the recognition. This will then actually do the translation. Let's put in a debug and see what this looks like. Let's have a look at what the output looks like. It is an object. It is not straightforward to be able to get out. Let's see if we can get... Actually, I take that back. You can see in the output the output of the response. You can see the translation, which is correct. I actually tried to say this is a test of my voice so that we can see if Azure AI can listen to what I've said and transcribe it to text. That's successful. I know because I said that. That means we've successfully been able to transcribe my text using an Azure AI service. Now, let's load all of this into our model. Okay. We are converting speech to text. We've recognized the text. Now we're going to the LLM. The LLM is now processing the message with that input and it can say I can see that you've shared an audio transcription. Great. The LLM has recognized this. It has directly told us what it has listened to. Now it wants to know how it can assist us further. Perfect. Now I've shown not only how our LLMs can read images, but how they can recognize speech. Let's now do document intelligence. Let me comment this out. Let's put this in. Let's have a look at what this PDF looks like that I have generated. Actually, it doesn't work that way. I created on the internet a very simple fake invoice using a free online generator for tutorial purposes only. It's an invoice for a builder. We will see that come through with document intelligence. Let's now go to document intelligence. We are going to then use document intelligence to help us extract structured data from documents. We'll be able to get things like vendor, customer, total amount and date from invoices, receipts. We'll be able to get different information from ID documents like your driver's license or passport. We can get other information. This is important because agents can't read PDFs directly, but this tool helps you get that structured data. Now, we just do a model mapping because there is actually different models available within document intelligence. You've got the invoice model, the receipt model, or the ID document model. There's even more models than that. For this demonstration, that is plenty. What we're going to do is we're going to read in the PDF file with this line of code, and then we are going to send it to document intelligence. We will send it using this document intelligence client, begin analyze documents, and then with the poller, we can get the results. Let's have a look at that. I'm making sure that I have. Yep. Good. Let's run it. Okay. Analyzing the invoice. It's still running. It's still analyzing. It takes a little bit more time to analyze a PDF. Now, let's look at the result. Here we go. We now get a lot of information coming back from our document. A lot of information. Document intelligence can be really good at analyzing structured documents because it's using more than just your standard vision AI behind the scenes. It's very good. You get a lot of information. Now, because of all of this information, I have written a little bit of code to just extract the key details that I'm interested in, such as the vendor name, the customer, the total amount, etc. And for receipts and for ID, also some limited information. That's just because it can take a lot of time to really properly format all of this. But, if you wanted to not worry about tokens, you could convert all of this into one big text response and send it to the LLM to process. Okay. Perfect. Let's now, without you actually having seen that document, let's see what the LLM tells us is in that document. So, let's run the whole script. Okay. We are now running. We are analyzing the invoice, which is real. Azure AI is actually analyzing the invoice. We've checked the user message is safe. Now, the LLM is processing that document, taking the information that we've converted to text. It says, the document you have uploaded appears to be an invoice from Apex Framework and Construction addressed to these people. The total amount is $145 Australian dollars on this date. Perfect. You can now see that the LLM has successfully been able to understand what was in the invoice. So, that's it. Now, you might be realizing that this was a very basic demonstration. We could have potentially allowed the agent to see this as tools. We could have created a tool definition for the three different Azure AI service tools and let the agent decide if it wants to run them. In this case, I tried to show you a basic example of grounding the information directly to the first message. You can really do a lot with these services. I mean, everything else learned about memory, open telemetry, and multi-agent orchestration to really orchestrate a very high quality all-in-one solution. This is yet another tool that you can use in your agents. Okay? Perfect. So, in summary, this script introduced multi-modal integration. Azure AI Vision, helping us analyze images, getting captions or optical character recognition text extraction. Azure AI Speech, that can help us convert speech to text. It also can do text to speech as well. So, we could actually output the result from our LLM directly into speech. And we learned about Azure AI Document Intelligence to help us extract structured data from invoices, receipts, ID documents, etc. Perfect. Thank you so much for watching, and I'll see you in the next unit.

=== ID 39: Unit 18: Input Transformation û NLP Preprocessing ===
LENGTH: 19697
Welcome, everyone. In this unit, we're going to extend on the services we learned about, such as vision, speech, and document intelligence, and we're going to be looking at the natural language processing services that Azure offers, and we're going to learn how to use them in conjunction with an agent. So, at the beginning, we need to deploy our resources. Now, I've already gone ahead and deployed them, but let me take you through the Bicep file for what we're deploying today. So, in the Bicep file, it'll be the same resources you are familiar with. It is going to have the foundry, the project, content safety, but then we are also going to load in the language here, or the language, natural language processing services. So, let's look inside the Bicep file. Here we are. Azure AI language service for natural language processing, or NLP. It is going to provide us language detection, ID deduction, NUR, which is natural entity recognition, key phrase extraction, and sentiment analysis. It's actually using almost exactly the same code as what was needed with the prior vision services, speech services, and document intelligence services, which is almost copy and paste exactly the same here. And again, it is going to be at a free tier, so you don't have to pay for it. But remember, you can only have one of these deployed at any one time. So, if you are spinning up and spinning down, you need to ensure that you have deleted the service. If we go to the pie here, I mean to the shell script, we have to delete our entire resource group, and then also delete our cognitive services. Now, actually, this needs to be updated on the pie unit, and it needs to say language. Great. Perfect. So, then by running this line here, that is how you ensure that you can deploy, you can redeploy your service after you've deleted it. Okay. So, now we have got everything ready via Bicep. We are also going to be outputting the language endpoint and the language API key. And then that should be everything we need to connect to our language service. It's quite straightforward to our previous unit. We're just going to be learning about all the different outputs that we can get on this service. Okay. So, now let's go into our Python script. So, what's new in this unit? We're going to learn about Azure AI Language, which is a cloud service that provides natural language processing, or NLP capabilities, such as language detection, pie reduction, entity extraction, key phrase extraction, and sentiment analysis. We're going to learn about all of these today and actually run all of them. For those of you who aren't aware, pie is an acronym for personally identifiable information. And we're going to be learning about pie reduction. So, we're going to be essentially automatically detecting and removing sensitive outliers like credit card numbers, social security numbers, and email addresses from user input before the LLM even sees it. You will see an example of this today. We also have NUR, which is named entity recognition. This is going to involve extracting and tagging entities like people, organizations, dates, and locations in the text. We're also going to do language detection. We're going to identify what the language the user is writing in. And we'll do sentiment analysis, determining if the user's message is positive, negative, or neutral. And we're going to put all of this together into a transformation pipeline, where we're going to start with language detection, then pie reduction, then entity extraction, then key phrase extraction, and then finally sentiment analysis. And we'll be able to use this entire pipeline to enhance what is sent to the LLM. Okay. So now let's go into the JSON file to see what we have exported from our Bicep. Here, we have got the Azure OpenAI endpoint, the large language model name, the content safety endpoint. I've also put in the language endpoint and my language key. Again, I will be deleting my resources after this video, so you won't be able to access my language endpoint. Okay. Let's now continue through the Python script. In this Python script, we need to be loading in the text analytics client, which is new from prior units. And we will be loading in a natural language processing class. So we here have a class, Azure Natural Language Processing Services, and we'll be connecting it with our basic agent. So we will load in all of our environment variables. We will authenticate to our services, including the language client. So we'll get our language client out of the way. Then we're going to instantiate our classes, the content safety class. Most importantly for this unit, the Azure AI Service or the Natural Language Processing Service. We're going to instantiate that. And we will instantiate the basic class, which for this unit, just like before, is just a very basic agent that just runs a user message. Okay. Now, we are going to try and go through some examples with a text that goes through quite a few different things. It'll be going through iRedaction. So we're going to be putting in a fake credit card number to see how our model responds. We're going to be putting in keywords like New York to see how the model reacts. Or an entire sentence and see how the key phrase extraction works. So we're going to be using this message as an example to see how all those different services respond. I think now it's time to go into what the class looks like. So in this class, we have a few different functions. Let me collapse them all. Okay. So at the beginning, we just instantiate our class, and here we put in the reload in the client, and we get one configuration that we're going to need. Then we have at the lowest level one, two, three, four, five different jobs we want done from this language client. We then have a wrapper function that will be calling all of those five services, and then we will be taking the outputs and passing them through this function here. So let's look at the wrapper first. Here the user input will be the user's query. So I want you to think about that we are now building a pipeline to work with any agent project where you can now be able to put in any text, regardless of its context, and enhance it. We are going to start by detecting the language of the text. Then we will identify any personally identifiable information and removing it from that user input. We will also get entities, key phrases, and sentiment analysis in that order, and then all of that is going to be outputted to this pre-processed dictionary. This is important because then we can use that dictionary however we wish for the rest of our code. So that way this class is universal. You might want to do different things with the outputs, so we put it all together in a dictionary. So let's go ahead and look at what the PyDetect language does. I'm going to put in a debug. Actually while I'm here, I'm going to put in a debug into each of the other stages. Put in slightly the wrong spot. There. That way we can very easily see what all the outputs look like. And while I'm here, I'm going to undo it, put in a slightly better response. I'm going to put it in just before the final results are returned. And then we will go through the code. Almost there. I think it's here. Yes. Analyze sentiment. I think it will be here. Okay, great. We will now go ahead and run the code and we're going to see how our code actually what happens in our code at these stages and we'll break down the functions. Okay, let's run our script. So now we're going to be running it, which means we will be going through the content safety service automatically as we do in almost all of our units. Here we go, going through content safety. Okay, great. So now we've already got through. So let's explain it. We need to put off our user input into this particular format for the natural language processing service. And that's because it can actually handle multiple documents at a time. So you might want to be using the language client to do not an agent piece of work, but maybe just some document preprocessing in general where you want to give thousands of documents from your company. Here we only have text, so it's technically only a single document. The way you run it is you get your language client and you do dot detect language. Important because this is the raw line of code that you'll need to know. And then you get a result. Let's have a look at that. Here, the result is telling us to make sure you make this bigger for you to see. You will see the primary language, detected language is English. And also a few more details that are kind of hidden. So let's have a look at what the extracted output looks like. Here you can see English with the ISO name and the confidence score. So this model is 100% confidence it is English. Very interesting. Now you can see that very simply with very minimal work, very minimal lines of code, you can detect language. Let's see what else it can do. Now we have gone to redacting personally identifiable information. I find this one maybe my favorite of all of them. Let me show you what happens. Well, in documents, we have our code wrapped up. And importantly, I mean, our user message wrapped up. Importantly, we've actually put in real credit card numbers. So you might want to build a solution that protects your client from even having their data ever sent to the company hosting the large language model, because you yourself in your code have automatically taken that information away. And you can do that with language client .recognizePy entities. Let's see what the result looks like. Okay. It says it has identified an entity that is Pi. And it's literally got the credit card detail exactly here. If we go to entities, you can see with more detail. It says it has automatically figured out this is the text that has been redacted. It has automatically classified it as a credit card number. So that means this algorithm knows what to do. And it gives a little bit of information along with a confidence score. Now, with a little bit of preprocessing, you can get the redacted text. Let me show you what that looks like. Here. Here we have the transformed user input. What's the weather like in New York next week? Also, my credit card number is this. And it's filled with stars now. This is very powerful. It means now you don't have to worry about the large language model dealing with this. We are automatically replacing credit card details. So this is a very simple but very important trick or technique that you can use to help enhance your agent solution. Now let's go on to the next service. Okay. So now we're dealing with entity extraction. So what does that look like? Well, the result is going to be it has identified an entity called New York. Now I believe there's more entities than New York that's been captured. But New York has what it's captured. If we go to entities in total, there we go. Now we can see New York was categorized. It is categorized as a location with a subcategory of city. It also categorized next week. Now it has given it a category of a date time value with a subcategory of date range. Very interesting. And it's also identified the word credit card calling it a product category with no subcategory. So this is not a large language model we've caught here. This is the Azure AI services which have their own models behind the scenes. And it has done all this extraction for you. Now most likely this is going to be its own deep learning model. But it's not necessarily a large language model. Instead it's a more specialized deep language model specialized in entity extraction. Although you can do entity extraction without a deep language model, it likely is one. Now we can get with a little bit of preprocessing, we can change the text to look like the following. Tagged text. Here we are. Now we've transformed the input to say what's the weather like with this formatting of location, New York, date time next week, product, credit card with the reduction of the credit card number already occurred. So now you can see that we have already gone quite a bit of transformation of the user's original question. I think this output is fantastic. It's such a powerful way to add extra information to the user's input from the user's input before it's passed to a large language model. And it's very cheap to do. It's much cheaper running this service than running a large language model. And it has the potential to improve its accuracy by a meaningful amount. Now let's see what else is available. So now we're looking at key phrases. So what does the result of this look like? Here we've got some key phrases like credit card number, New York, weather. So let's have a look at all the key phrases exactly. Actually that is exactly what they are. Credit card number, New York, weather. So sometimes you can use key phrases to simplify an entire message. And now without really putting it all together, I know this is something to do with credit cards and the weather in New York. So that's a really powerful thing, is key phrase extraction. Okay. Let's look at the next service. Sentiment. There are many applications for sentiment. And in fact, some of the first machine learning applications many years ago, more than 10 years ago, were focused very hard on getting sentiment accurately classified and easily accessible for the wider audiences of the world through cloud deployment. So we've come a long way since then, now that we have large language models. But it's great to see that we still have a very easily accessible sentiment analysis model. If you look at the result, it tells us that the message that we have sent has been classified as neutral. We have a little bit more detail. It says neutral and the confidence is almost 100% or 99% for neutral. So now we have a sentiment and this can be really useful because you can create different workflows. If your confidence has been shown to be negative, you might not even go to a large language model. You might force it to be routed to a human or you might even tell the user to please rewrite their message with not a negative sentiment. You might not want to do that in all situations, but you have this powerful option. Oh, I just realized a small little formatting bug. There we go. Okay, so now we know the sentiment of our text is neutral. Yeah, I've also included a bit of a print statement to say should you escalate if it is negative, but really this is just a print statement and you would need to do a bit more to actually add some logic here. Okay, great. I think that is all the services. Yes, I'm going to stop the whole script. So now let's go ahead and turn off all these debugs. They are going to get in the way. Let's now run the entire script. Let's run it all the way through into our large language model. To do that, we're going to need to look at the last modification steps we've made. We will take in the user input. We're going to check if this content is safe. We're going to build the system instructions through the standard method. Then we're going to run our natural language processing. No point doing natural language processing if content safety is potentially going to block the user message. So only spend money when you have to. Then what we're going to do is do these two post-processing steps or pre-processing steps. We're going to change the user's message to this particular version. We're going to extend the system instructions with some of the other outputs. Let's have a look at what the extension of the system instructions looks like. Here, it's quite a simple piece of code. You don't have to do it the way that I've done it. You can make this a user message instead. But here, we're going to get all the key phrases for the user message and concatenate them together. Then we're going to extend the system instructions. Here's the original system instructions with an extension that I'm highlighting. It's going to explicitly say, use these results for context. Here's the detected language. Here is the user's sentiment. Here are the key topics being discussed. We can also add in extra things, such as sensitive information has been redacted, telling them that entities have been tagged. That way, the large language model knows why we have this particular formatting. We're even saying, if the sentiment is negative, be extra helpful and empathetic, and to respond in the same language as the user used. Adding this on to the system instructions, which we never were able to do previously, but now we can. Okay. Great. Now, I'm going to put in I think we just run the whole script. Now, if I didn't mention this earlier, what I love about all of this is we can improve the quality of our agent's response for cheap. We don't have to spend too much money to run these services, and we get a lot of information outputted, and we improve the quality of our agent. I think it's really, really powerful, and I know you don't technically need to be doing this, and if you wanted to keep your process or your code simple, it totally makes sense to just send your results directly to the agent, but using this natural language processing, you can really improve the quality, especially improve the safety of your output product with the reduction of the PI information. Okay. With that all out of the way, let's run this. Let's run it end-to-end. Okay. We're scanning the user message. It's passed. Okay. Here's the original input. We've detected English. We have detected a credit card number. We have detected three entities. We have detected these particular key phrases. We have detected a neutral sentiment. Now, we have extended the system instructions with this information. We are now preprocessing the message with the agent that has natural language processing. We've now sent the message to the agent, and here we are. Hi, Luke. I can help with your query. However, for security reasons, please avoid sharing your credit card number. As far as the weather in New York, I don't have real-time data, etc. You can see here that maybe from the outside, you have no idea that the large language model even had all this preprocessing has happened, but I can guarantee that we have not sent our credit card details to OpenAI. Okay. Perfect. I think you've seen everything you need to see. The only thing I didn't show was exactly what I was sending to the user message. Let me actually just do that quickly. To run that example, let me show you exactly the message that we sent to the agent. The message we sent was a tagged and redacted version. This one that you can see before you, this was the one that we sent to the agent. You can see it's a lot more different to the original one. The system instructions, it is quite long, but it definitely has, as I can confirm, a natural language processing result, along with all the other information from before. Perfect. Let's now close off this unit. In this script, you've been introduced to input transformation using Azure AI Language. You've learned about language detection, identifying what language the user is writing in. You learned about PI redaction, how to remove sensitive information like credit cards, SNNs, emails with input, named entity extraction, which is tags for people, organizations, dates, locations. You learned about key phrase extraction, identifying the main topics in the user's message. Sentiment analysis, detecting positive, negative, or neutral mood. You learned how you put all of that together into a transformation pipeline. Great. Thank you so much for watching, and I'll see you in the next unit.

=== ID 40: Unit 19 : Secure Secret Management with Azure Key Vault ===
LENGTH: 20012
Welcome, everybody. In this unit, we're going to learn how to use Azure Key Vault to help us implement a more secure method of accessing our endpoints using our API keys, et cetera. So to begin with, let's start with deploying our Azure Key Vault. Now, I've already gone ahead and deployed my Azure Key Vault, but let's go ahead and look at the bicep file. There's actually going to be quite a few changes to this bicep file, because we are now using Azure Key Vault. So we're going to extend the last unit, where we are going to still be deploying Content Safety, Azure Foundry, and the Azure NLP Languages Service. But we are also going to be deploying our Azure Key Vault. But because we're using Key Vault, because we're using Key Vault now, we are going to change the outputs of this bicep file significantly. So at the beginning of this bicep file, we will deploy our resources like normal. Our Foundry, our Foundry Service, our Foundry Project. We will deploy our large language model, our Content Safety resource, our language service. Everything will be the same as before. Now, at this point, it's quite simple. We will be deploying our Azure Key Vault. Our Azure Key Vault is going to help us secure all of our secrets. This will be API keys, endpoints, connection strings, et cetera. Now, very importantly, there are two properties in this. The first one is we must enable purge protection. This is a requirement now for Microsoft, which means if you delete your Azure Key Vault, it will actually still exist. And so it is, therefore, you need to do two deletions to delete your Key Vault. Now, I had to do a little bit of work to learn how to delete the Key Vault fully. And let me show you how. In the shell command, you are used to deleting the entire deployment. Now, similar to how you also had to secondarily delete your cognitive services, you also have to delete your Key Vault. Here, I wrote a command that helps you find any of your soft deleted Key Vaults. And then you can use this one to permanently delete the Key Vaults after, and I emphasize after, they have been soft deleted. So you still have to run this command, and then you run this one with the name of your Key Vault and its region to do a full permanent deletion. This is, oh, let me go back to Bicep. This is all because Microsoft forces us now to enable purge protection. Secondly, you've got role-based access control. We are going to ensure that we connect to our Key Vault using a managed identity, and then we have to have the right permissions enabled on our Key Vault to be able to access it. So this has been set to true. There's no point accessing Key Vault in an insecure way, given that this is our secure way of storing all of our sensitive data. So we must access this in the most secure way. Okay. So once we've got your Key Vault deployed, you then need to put your secrets into the Key Vault. Now that's where Bicep can also be helping us. In our Bicep file, we are now going to be taking the outputs that we were previously sending, like the Azure OpenAI endpoint, and putting in that value that we were previously outputting and directly putting it into the Key Vault. So that way, we never actually need to access it directly. It will all be sent directly to Key Vault automatically via the Bicep deployment. So this is a really clever way that we can make sure that our proper secrets are, as quickly as they are created, sent to Key Vault. So here we are, sending the OpenAI endpoint as a secret, sending the large language deployment name, sending the content safety endpoint, sending the language service endpoint, and most importantly, sending the language service API key. This is a very sensitive value that definitely needs to be secured in Azure Key Vault. And then finally, we only need to output the Key Vault details themselves instead of actually outputting any of the secrets, because then, as long as we have the name to the secret, such as language key, language endpoint, content safety endpoint, as long as we know these labels that we have given these secrets, we can then actually just use the Key Vault endpoint to get those for us. So it cleans up the outputs from our Bicep file, and it very securely sends all these values to Azure Key Vault. And the great thing is, with just the one line of code of deploying the Bicep file, all of this is happening. So almost half the work of deploying our resources and securing all our values all happens via Bicep. And then all you have to do is get your Key Vault endpoints. And if I go to my environment variables, we only now have to put in the one environment variable, which is the Key Vault URI or URL. It's much more secure and much less work for you also to do. So then all we have to do next is ensure that we have got the right permissions to access Key Vault and the secrets within it. So this is the extra step that you're going to have to do, is you're going to have to give yourself the right permissions. So here I have, with the lines of code that I've copied, a way to assign yourself the Key Vault secrets user role. That way, you then have access to access the secrets in Key Vault. The way you can do this is you can just get your object ID, copy and paste it where I'm putting in here. And if I scroll over, you will put in the role of Key Vault secrets user. And then all your details like your subscription ID, your hidden, your resort, keeps hiding, your resource group name, and finally the name of your Key Vault. With that done, you now have a CLI command to give yourself the permissions required to get the secrets from Azure Key Vault. So now you've done three quarters of all that needs to be done. We've deployed Key Vault, we've sent secrets to Key Vault, and you've given yourself the permissions to access Key Vault. So you've done three quarters of everything you need to do to work with Azure Key Vault. Now the next step is just reconfiguring your Python file to get those secrets for you. So let's go ahead and look at what that Python script looks like. Well, in this unit, as we've already started, we're going to be dealing with secure secret management with Azure Key Vault. We're going to learn that Key Vault is a cloud service to securely storing and managing secrets, keys, and certificates, eliminating hard-coded credentials from your code. We've learned about Bicep integration, deploying Key Vault and storing secrets directly through infrastructure as code templates during deployment. We've learned about role-based access permissions using Azure role-based access control via CLI to grant fine-grained access to secrets without modifying infrastructure code. You've learned that we will be using a managed identity authentication, or we're going to show it, to connect to a Key Vault using Azure AD identities instead of any hard-coded connection strings or keys. This is really key because why go through all the effort of getting Key Vault to secure all of your endpoints and keys if the way you access Key Vault is also in a very insecure method? You need to be accessing Key Vault via managed identities to make the rest of the pipeline, the rest of the work, even worth it. Because if you don't do that, then in theory, someone could get your connection string to your Key Vault and from the connection string, access all of your secrets, which makes no sense. It's actually better in that situation to have multiple connection strings because then maybe a user might not get access to all of your services. We're also going to implement secret caching. We're going to make sure that we are going to implement an LRU or least used cache to minimize network calls to Key Vault. This will reduce costs to Key Vault. It'll reduce write errors from Key Vault and it'll improve your entire application's performance. We're going to do this with a secret manager pattern or class, which will be a reusable class that will help you handle secret retrieval, caching, and error handling with minimal code changes. Let's have a look. We're going to be using and extending on the last unit, so all the same packages are needed, plus we're going to need the secret client from Key Vault.secrets. Then we'll be adding in a new class called secret manager. Now we only need to access a few of our environment variables, far less than before, and when it comes to authentication, this code here that I'm highlighting is where all the difference is. The rest of this code, as I'll skip over, will look exactly the same as the previous unit. We'll still be instantiating content safety, still instantiating the natural language processing service class, still instantiating a basic agent. All the main script logic is going to be identical. We're still going to be redacting the credit cards, putting in the entities like New York and the date being next week. We're still going to do everything we did from the prior unit. There is no changes to this at all. The only changes are going to be the changes to the authentication part of the code, because the authentication part of the code is when we were previously injecting all of our endpoints and API keys, and this time we're going to be injecting them with the Key Vault as the middleman. So let's go ahead and look at the secret manager before we go into this detail. Okay, let's go into the secret class or the secret manager class. So in the secret manager class, it is actually quite simple. Okay, great. So we are just going to be initialising it by bringing in the secret client. Let's have a look at how we do that very quickly in the main script. In the main script, we will use the default Azure credential to get our credential. This way, we are not using any API keys or connection strings. We're using our managed identity. And then with the secret client that we are getting from the Azure package directly, we put in the Key Vault URL with the credential, no API keys or connection strings, and getting our secret client. And then when we instantiate the secret manager, we are sending in that particular secret client. So if I go back, now we've instantiated. We will also put in a hidden cache to start with. So then we have three functions. We have get secret, get secret without caching, and clear cache. And that's because when we get secrets from Azure Key Vault, there are different rate limits that you will reach. And there's also a cost every time you access Key Vault. Now it's extremely cheap, but when you are running hundreds of thousands of calls to Azure Key Vault, that does add up as a cost. And so you're going to want to be caching where possible to reduce your costs and to reduce any rate limiting errors you may get. So here we have a get secret function that itself calls the get secret without caching function. Let's look at the get secret without caching function as that's the lowest level. Here we run the secret client and we run the very simple command get secret. It's not a complicated line function. You're just doing dot get secret with the name of the secret that you already know how the secret is named. However, to run this particular command, you need to have the right permissions. You need the Key Vault secrets user role. That is what you need in order to be able to access it, which I've done for you, which has been done for you here. Then you will have the permission to get the secrets. This function gets wrapped around the get secrets with a caching. And if I show you, here it is. I was mistaken, actually. This is actually a separate command, but it does essentially the same job and you could actually implement it here, which I think I will. It makes no sense why I wouldn't have done this earlier. So let me do that. Secret equals self dot get secret secret name. Perfect. There we go. Now that's going to do exactly what we want, exactly as I said. So now let's understand what this is doing. It is a function that has been defined to do a cache automatically for us. And it is going to try and see if the secret name is in the cache. If it's in the cache, it will return the cache. So immediate and quick. However, if there is no secret or the secret name is not in the cache, then we're going to get it from the key vault. We will run that function, get secret without caching. We will return our secret and then we will immediately cache it. So that way we don't have to call the key vault again. And then we will return the result. And next time we call the secret manager for the same secret, it'll instead get it from the cache directly. It's quite simple. This is not meant to be a complicated secret manager class. And then there's also the optional step of clearing the cache where you clear the cache, et cetera. So it's quite a simple manager for Zero Key Vault. It's not a complicated thing to do. The hardest part with the Zero Key Vault is deploying it, sending it the secrets and getting the right permissions. Once you've done that, the remaining accessing of the secrets is very easy. So now let's look at the Python script. It's very simple. All we are doing here is we are going to be putting in the open AI endpoint. And instead of putting in the environment variable, we're going to be putting in secret manager dot get secret here. I've done it in this position so that there's an immediate injection of the endpoint into the open AI service instead of storing it as a variable in our code. That way there is no temporary storage. It's immediately called and consumed. This makes it a little bit more secure than if you were to do something like endpoint equals this. It's a little bit less secure doing that. Great. So now you get your endpoint from open AI automatically accessed. Same with content safety. You're getting your endpoint automatically secured. And with our language client, we're putting in our language endpoint. And very importantly, because this one, the other ones earlier are using managed identities to access them. With the language client, we actually were a little bit lazy and we were just using the API key. So now we have found a way to securely use Azure Key Vault to stop that language key from being exposed to the application or to yourselves watching this course. So now we have a language client getting both the endpoint and the secret securely from Key Vault. So now we've done, got everything we need from Azure Key Vault. And then the rest of the code, it runs as normal. Let me quickly show you what this would look like if I was to put in a debug. Okay. So I did a test of running the Python script before this video, and I made a small mistake in the prior script. Let me show you that. Before, when I rewrote this code here, it was secret and then secret.value, whereas the old version of getSecretWithoutCaching was actually returning secret.value. So it was coming up with a double error, an error because I was trying to get the value, but I'd already returned the value. So now I've stopped that. Now we should be good to run the rest of our scripts. So now let's run it. We are going to put a debug here, and we are going to see what we get returned from Azure Key Vault. Okay. Now let's call Azure Key Vault. Okay. Give it a second while it accesses it. Perfect. You can now see the string result from Azure Key Vault. So you can see here that we've been able to access Azure Key Vault directly. And then we can get all of our different secrets. We can include in get, which you should know, And then we can get all of our different secrets. We can include in get, which you should never actually do, but for this course, because I'll delete it, I don't mind, I will show you the language key. You can now see the language key has been returned. Perfect. Okay. Great. Just to prove to you this will work, let me run the full script end to end. You shouldn't notice anything different from the last unit, other than the fact that you know it is being, the application is a little bit more secure than last time. Okay. We'll let it run. Actually, I'll make this bigger. Okay. We are scanning the user message. Perfect. We've got all of our results. We scan the user message, which means definitely all the authentication and the accessing of a zero key vault went successfully. We took in the original input. We did a whole bunch of natural language processing. We ended up getting our basic agent to read the pre-processed or the pre-processed user message. We got an output from our agent, and it's saying the weather forecast, recommend checking a particular app. As far as security, please avoid sharing your credit card number. Perfect. A fully working end to end solution that is a lot more secure. So let's now summarize. In this script, you've been introduced to secure secret management with a zero key vault. You learned about key vault deployment, deploying it via Bicep and storing the secrets all during the Bicep deployment. You learned about role-based access control missions, granting the key vault secret users role using Azure CLI. You learned how to use a managed identity to authenticate to a zero key vault instead of using a connection string. You learned about a secret manager class to help you retrieve secrets using occasion, and you learned how you can use this method to very simply migrate an old script to a new script without changing any of the core logic just by implementing key vault in the beginning during the authentication stage. Furthermore, I want to say that this is probably a level two level security. Level one being connection strings and API keys directly. Level two is using key vault to store all of those API keys. Level three is when you don't even need the API keys at all because you're using a managed identity. So we have shown you a level two of security here, but if you want to be more secure, we would not be accessing the natural language processing service with Azure key vault API keys. You would instead use a managed identity. However, if you are using everything as managed identities, you still might want to secure all of your end points using Azure key vault. Perfect. Thank you so much for listening and I'll see you in the next unit. I want to make an extension to the last video because there are some complications I observed with deleting the key vault. Look at the commands above. Here, I can find a list of all of my key vaults after I have deleted my resources. We'll give it a second to run and you'll see our key vault that is still existing. Existing in a soft deleted state. Here we go. We get some details. I scroll up, you will see the name of the key vault with some details. You will see here the deletion date. This is exactly when I soft deleted it, but you will see that the purge protection is enabled, which we did when we deployed the resource and you'll see a scheduled purge date. It is actually different to the deletion date. It is seven days later. This is very important because of the next problem I observed. I tried to do a manual purging to force the deletion to occur and I got this error message. Method not allowed. Operation deleted vault purge is not allowed. You are no longer able to delete your soft deleted key vaults. Instead, you have to wait until the scheduled purge date has occurred. You can run this CLI command here to get the same information that we got when we ran this earlier. It tells us exactly when the purging is going to occur. There's no need to worry about this because there are no costs that will occur. But if you try to redeploy the same key vault with the same name exactly as I put in here, you might get some error messages. So please keep this in mind. But other than that, no need to worry. If you have run the command, delete the entire deployment, there'll be no more costs. And if you wait a week, you will find it's fully deleted from Azure. There you go, little extension to the previous video. Thank you so much for listening and I'll see you in the next unit.

=== ID 41: Unit 20: Complete Agent Integration û Production-Ready System ===
LENGTH: 52
/* Sanitization Error: No valid JSON object found */

