SECTION: 2 System Setup and GitHub Repo for the Labs
LECTURE_ID: 2
TITLE: System Setup and GitHub Repo for the Labs
TRANSCRIPT_LENGTH: 2512
---
Now, that's going to be a really quick video in terms of showing you the GitHub repository where all of the code base
required to perform the hands-on activities is situated. You know the URL and also a bit of system setup that's required
for you to perform the hands-on activities without any problem. So first things first, the GitHub repository that we'll
be using for majority of the course in order to perform these hands-on activities is at this URL, which is on my GitHub
public profile, and that's with the name of Azure AI Cloud Developer. You can pause this video over here, copy the URL
in your web browser, clone or fork the repository on your account, and then we can move forward. I'll also be attaching
a link to this repository in the resources section of the video, so make sure you grab that from there. Now, this is the
repository that we'll be using for the hands-on activities, and this in the readme file also includes links for various
system softwares that will be required like VS Code, a Git Bash terminal, an Azure CLI, and Python installed on your
environment. So we'll be using VS Code as the IDE, the integrated development environment for all the labs, and we'll
also require a Bash terminal installed on our device. Now, if Bash is not available on your device, you can also simply
move ahead with PowerShell. So wherever you encounter these command scripts that are written in the Bash command, just
make sure you copy those command scripts, go to chat GPT or any other code generation tool, and simply prompt the AI
application with the fact that you just want to convert the Bash script into a PowerShell script, and you'll be good to
go. So that's one thing that you can also do. Then we also need the Azure CLI installed. Now the links are absolutely
all over there, and Python installation is also required. The code snippets are in Python, so Python is absolutely
required. So all of these links are in the GitHub repository. You can access the installation links from the GitHub
repository's readme file so that you don't waste a lot of your time into searching for these links. And these
installations are pretty much easy to do, easy to configure, and I'm pretty sure majority of them would already be up
and working on your device. So just go ahead and get these installations up and working, and I'm pretty sure you'll be
able to get all of them up in no time. All right, so I guess that's it. That's pretty much it for the video, and I'll
see you in the next lecture.
