SECTION: 2 System Setup and GitHub Repo for the Labs
LECTURE_ID: 3
TITLE: Course Outline and Learning Recommendations
TRANSCRIPT_LENGTH: 2127
---
Now, with this video, I just want to highlight the course outline and give some learning recommendations from my side to
help you make the best out of this course. So you'll observe that the course indeed has some theory lectures, but the
majority part of the course involves performing great amounts of hands-on activities and hands-on labs. And that's
perfectly aligned with the AI 200 study guide and what the exam expects from you. So pay closer attention to the
hands-on activities and if possible, perform those labs on your own lab environment to make the best of the learning
experience. Now the next question is, how should you approach the course labs? My learning recommendations are as
follows. Follow along with the videos, watch the videos, gain some instructor-led knowledge and some practical insights
from my own experience. And then if possible, perform the labs in your own environment. With this, you'll be able to
make the best of your learning experience. And then all the code snippets and the instructions that we'll be taking the
help of while we are performing the labs are provided in the following GitHub repository. You can see that the
repository is a public repository that's hosted on my GitHub profile. You can go to this URL, fork or clone the
repository on your own account. And yeah, we'll be good to go with that. I'll also be attaching this presentation in the
resources section of the video. You can grab the presentation and follow to the link from the presentation itself. Or
you can pause the video and copy the link on your device. And last but not the least, the final learning recommendation
is to enjoy and have fun. The course includes a lot of cool theory lectures and hands-on activities. And I'm pretty sure
you will have learned a lot by the end of this course. All of the content in the course won't just help you excel at the
AI 200 certification, but will also equip you with real life skills, which will be more valuable to you on your job.
Alright, so I guess that's it. That's all I wanted to share with the help of this video. And yep, I'll see you in the
next lecture.
