SECTION: 3 AI-200 Primers and Foundations
LECTURE_ID: 5
TITLE: GenAI Jargons and Foundations
TRANSCRIPT_LENGTH: 9510
---
So with this video, let's get ourselves comfortable with some generative AI jargons, some key terminologies and aspects
that I'll be talking a lot about in the following videos for the generative AI set of things for this course. So it's
better that we get ourselves accustomed with these jargons. So the first one is tokens. Tokens is basically the way that
your model interprets the language that you speak, which is English. You'll be making some API calls to your model with
some user queries, and those are going to be written in English as a language. But at the end of the day, the model is a
machine. It's not a human. So it needs to work its way around interpreting the language that you speak in the form of
numbers, in the form of numeric values. And that's really what tokens really are. And as a matter of fact, even if you
go ahead and see the pricing or the billing page for any of these large language models, you notice that you aren't
billed for the API calls that you make, but rather for the number of tokens that you pass to your large language model
as input, and then what you get back as output as part of a single API call is what you have billed for that large
language model. So if you take this example, which is something, a couple of sentences, words written in English, which
reads like, specifically, tokens are the segments of text that are fed into and generated by the machine learning model,
blah, blah, blah, until chunks of text. This is a combination of two sentences with the total character count accounting
for 204 characters. But the total number of tokens is 40 in nature. And what that means is, if you consider this input
value, specifically is one token, this comma is also one token. Similarly, this white space would also be another token,
and likewise. So all in all, tokens aren't really expressed as characters, but these might make up a single word or
might also make up a combination of two different words. So the way that you split your characters and words into tokens
really just depends on the type of encoding and the decoding model that's used in your large language model. And
likewise, if you see, if you consider this sentence also, meta-origins-labs is your next solution. Even though it has 39
characters, these are represented as eight tokens, and then meta being one token with this tokenized ID, origins being
another token with this token ID, so on and so forth. But even though you're seeing on the screen that words are broken
down into tokens, with one tokenized ID being assigned to one meaningful word, it doesn't necessarily work that way in
real life. A tokenized ID could be assigned to a combination of two different words or a part of two different words
that completely depends on the type of the decoding and the encoding model used. So models don't read text directly.
They process tokens, because at the end of the day, these are machines. They require some sort of mathematical input.
Now, a token is a chunk of text. It could be a whole word, a subword, a character, or even a combination of two words.
Same text can have different token counts than character counts, and then a longer prompt. So the larger amount of
instructions that you send to your large language model, it means more tokens, and it results in higher cost and
latency. And the way that a large language model is built on the basis of the input token sent and the output tokens
received, and as far as my experience has been concerned with the generative AI world as a software developer, you are
built lesser for the input tokens, for the same amount of tokens as compared to the output tokens that you get back. So
even though you try to inflate your input value, as long as you get back an output value that's not as inflated, your
overall costs remain much significantly lesser had the case been that you get back an inflated output as compared to the
inflated input. Now, the next thing is system prompts and user prompts. So prompts, at the end of the day, are nothing
but instructions that you feed to your large language model. And whenever you're making an API call to a large language
model, there are two types of prompts that you consider when you're making that API call. One is the system prompt. The
second one is the user prompt. So the system prompt defines the AI's role, behavior, and constraints. How do you want
the large language model to behave? Whether you want it to behave like a policeman, a chef, even a cartoon character,
right? That's something that you would set in the system prompt. Now, if you consider user prompt, user prompt is
something that the user wants from the large language model. So even if you take the example from this visual, the
system prompt is, you are a renowned poet. Now, that sets the role for the large language model. That sets the setting
and the configuration for the LLM. Now, in this case, the user prompt is, write a poem on LLM. So that is something that
the user wants the large language model to do. Now, the output that you see from that AI application is going to be a
combination or a function of both the system prompt and then the user prompt. So the system prompt in this case will
determine how the poem is written. And then the user prompt will, well, tell the LLM to write a poem. That's how
everything goes. So system prompt is used for global instructions, for setting in the tone, rules, expertise, safety.
And the user prompt contains the task or question to be answered. And if you consider the priority of execution, let's
say if you set in certain behavior in the system prompt and also a behavior in the user prompt, something that you
shouldn't really do that causes your large language model to hallucinate, the priority of execution is the fact that the
system prompt has a higher priority than the user prompt. So the role that's defined in the system prompt is what will
get executed as compared to the role that's defined in the user prompt. Although this is something that shouldn't really
happen. That should not just happen, because that will cause your LLM to hallucinate at times and then not give back the
desired output and exhibit the desired behavior. Next, we have chat completions API. So the chat completions API is the
act of sending a request to your large language model. So for all the open AI models that we'll be using, the GPD
engines, and then even the text embedding engines, all these large language models, we'll be sending some API calls to
these large language models. And every time we'll be sending these API calls, we'll term those API calls as chat
completions API. And within that chat completions API, you will have the capability of including your system prompt, the
user prompt, and then making a reference to the model ID, which in this case would be the model ID or the model name
reference for the large language model that you want to use. So the chat completions API generates responses based on a
conversation history. You could give the system prompt, the user prompt, feed it to your large language model. And then
for completing the API request as part of the chat completions API, you require a model deployment name and then the
messages payload. So the messages payload needs to be included in the request body. And that's a combination of the
system prompt and the user prompt. Now let's talk about multimodality and multimodal models. So the large language
models that we know in a very general sense, like the GPT engines, even though not every GPT engine is unimodal in
nature, by unimodality, I mean that your large language model can only take in text as an input or let's say only image
as an input. So once that large language model takes either or only one single type of data as input and throws you a
single type of data as output, you call that model as a unimodal model. Whereas if you consider a multimodal AI model,
that AI model or that large language model can take in multiple types of data as inputs. It could be in the form of
image. It could be in the form of video, audio, and even textual data. And then on the output side, it can even have a
wide array or a wider range of results. So modality is just the type of data being referenced. It refers to whether data
is of type text, image, audio, video, et cetera. And unimodal models handle one input type only. And whereas on the
other hand, multimodal models process multiple input modalities together. And then this can enable richer understanding
by combining context across inputs. So you'll realize that a lot of these models, even let's take the example of GPT
4.1. GPT 4.1 is able to take in both image as well as text as input. And that's the reason why it's termed as a
multimodal AI model. And then you realize that these large language models, because they take in variety of data as
input, they are able to build up more contextual information as compared to unimodal AI models. And that's the reason
why when you want to build a very powerful AI application, you should choose a model that's multimodal in nature, that
takes in a wide variety of inputs so that you could build up a better contextual insight for the large language model
and essentially your AI application to function. All right, so I guess that's pretty much it for the video. It was all
about making ourselves comfortable and getting ourselves introduced to some generative AI jargons. And yep, without
further ado, let's quickly move on to the next set of videos.
