SECTION: 3 AI-200 Primers and Foundations
LECTURE_ID: 6
TITLE: Intro to the Microsoft Foundry Ecosystem
TRANSCRIPT_LENGTH: 8069
---
Now with the help of this video, let's have a quick introduction to the Microsoft Foundry ecosystem. We'll take a look
at what it is as a platform as a service and what capabilities does it have to offer to us in terms of building these
JNI applications, these large language models and everything that you can think of in the AI space. So I think in order
to understand what Microsoft Foundry is as an ecosystem, it's really important that we understand what it's trying to
solve in the first place. So I think we as developers have always struggled with these three problem statements at
large. You know, whenever we are trying to build these AI applications, the first step is to rapidly prototype and to
build these minimum viable products and these POCs that we can use to share concepts with customers. But then the thing
is, in order to build these MVPs and POCs, you have to set up your AI models, you have to set up the endpoints that you
will use to throw API calls to in your applications and the models need to be deployed somewhere. And that's a
bottleneck. You don't have a single platform that can help you deploy these models, manage these models and use these
models in your applications. So developers have always struggled with rapid prototyping, building and deploying these
MVPs and POCs to share concepts with customers, because that's the first stage in productionizing these AI applications.
The second step is we have always struggled with experimentation and evaluation to quickly test out what sort of
prompts, what sort of instructions, what sort of datasets will work for our solution and what sort of datasets won't
work for our solution. So that's also something that developers struggle a lot with. The third problem statement is once
you get past that MVP or POC stage, you are now tasked with a bigger problem at hand, a bigger opportunity at hand and
that bigger opportunity is building production-ready AI workloads. You have to manage evaluation of your workloads, you
have to manage security for your workloads and you also have to make sure that your workloads are scalable in nature.
And the thing is there's not a single ecosystem that can help you with observability, that can help you with making sure
that the workloads you're building are secure in nature and they are scalable in nature. So I think Microsoft Foundry
for all of these problem statements at large is your one-stop solution to all your developer needs on a
platform-as-a-service basis. So it's a platform that can help you with finding a solution to all these problem
statements in your development lifecycle. And I think that's a really good visual, although quite a bit intimidating at
first, but I think that's a really good visual that just highlights the different capabilities of the Microsoft Foundry
platform. So Microsoft Foundry platform offers you with, first of all, a model catalog wherein you can deploy models on
a serverless API inferencing basis from different vendors like Meta, Cloud, OpenAI, Grok, etc. So you have these large
language models that you can deploy without worrying about the underlying infrastructure with the help of a single click
of a button. And to this date, there are more than 11,000 plus models that you can deploy from the model catalog area.
And the really good thing about the model catalog is that you just have to simply deploy those models. You don't have to
worry about the underlying infrastructure and you can deploy these models on a pay-per-token or on a pay-per-use basis
in which you only pay for the amount of API calls that you throw to your models rather than for the infrastructure these
models use, even though they might sit idle for quite some time. So that's a really good starting point to build these
JNI and LLM-oriented applications. The second capability is that of the agent service. You can take on these LLMs and
then using the agent service, create your agents with different kinds of API plugins, different kinds of tools and
knowledge bases. You can even create agents that work on your enterprise data. Now, your enterprise data could be stored
in SharePoint, OneDrive, Microsoft 365, and even in some SQL databases and whatnot. So you can create agents that work
as chatbot on top of all of this vast corpus of data. Then you have Foundry IQ. Now, Foundry IQ is the place wherein you
bring all of this vast corpus of data to power your agents. So Foundry IQ is that single plane in the Foundry ecosystem
that can help you consolidate your entire knowledge bases that could eventually power your agents that you build in the
agent service. Then you have tools. Your agents need these tools. Your agents need these APIs and these functionalities
that they can use to carry out their business logic. So you can choose from a variety of tools like MCP servers, logic
apps, vector indexes for creating chatbots on top of your enterprise data, and some API definitions as well. And then
Foundry ecosystem is also really well integrated with the machine learning ecosystem. So if you want to build custom
models using those machine learning techniques, then you can absolutely take advantage of that. And then there's this
Foundry control plane that can help you track how well your agents are behaving, what number of agents are currently
working in the ecosystem, how good are they functioning. If there's any error with your agent, then what's that error?
So that comes under the observability segment for your agents and their associated works. And then there's also
something that's called as Foundry local in which you can completely develop LLM centric applications that stay private
to your machine itself. So that's also something that you can take advantage of, although that's not going to be the
main core basis of discussion for the further labs in this course. But yeah, that's a good point to know about the
Foundry ecosystem. And then obviously Foundry has built-in security, compliance, and governance that can help make sure
that you build your AI applications that have a security first or a compliance first or a governance first approach. So
that's the model catalog that I was talking about. You have more than 11,000 plus models to select from the Microsoft
Foundry ecosystem. And a point to keep in mind is that even though you see large language models in this screenshot, the
Foundry ecosystem is not only limited to the gen AI world. You can even deploy models that can help you make use of
those predictive AI workloads, those pre-built predictive AI workloads like image recognition, object detection, optical
character recognition, and all of that cool stuff. And then you also have things like language analysis, speech to text,
text to speech processing. So Foundry ecosystem is like that single ecosystem that you can use for all of your gen AI as
well as predictive AI needs. And then the Foundry ecosystem is also really well integrated with all these third-party
integrations. So whenever you build these multi-agentic architectures, you have to work with different third-party
integrations, different third-party SDKs, and softwares. To name a few, these are Microsoft Agent Framework, Lanchain,
LanGraph, Crew AI, Lama Index. So the Microsoft Foundry ecosystem also has support for all of these third-party
integrations, SDKs, and software. So you don't really need to worry about how you're going to manage these third-party
integrations. There's a built-in support for each of these third-party integrations. And I think that's it. You realize
that Foundry isn't just a tool, it's the entire AI development ecosystem and that solves a lot of problems for you. That
really just gives a head start on your AI development journey. And I think that's what is primarily needed in today's
rapidly changing tech world. All right. So I guess that's pretty much it for the video. That was all about an
introduction to the Microsoft Foundry ecosystem and some of its capabilities. And yep, without further ado, let's
quickly move on to the next set of videos.
