SECTION: 3 AI-200 Primers and Foundations
LECTURE_ID: 7
TITLE: Understanding Foundry Tools and Endpoints
TRANSCRIPT_LENGTH: 5818
---
So this is just going to be a quick video on understanding the whole Microsoft Foundry ecosystem setup and some tools
and endpoints that you can take advantage of, depending upon the kind of AI services that you want to use. So what do I
mean by this is, where should you navigate to if you want to get started on using these pre-built predictive AI
services? And where should you navigate to if you want to get started on using these Gen AI models, like these LLM
endpoints and these image generation endpoints? So this is how a typical Microsoft Foundry setup looks like. So first of
all, because that's a platform as a service, you can deploy Microsoft Foundry as a resource in your Azure portal. So
once you deploy that as a resource, the second thing is, you need to set up a project. And now this project within a
resource will be that single plane where your teammates or your colleagues can collaborate with you on your projects. So
likewise, if you can think of a Microsoft Foundry resource, a Microsoft Foundry resource could be deployed at the
organizational or at the department layer. And then because a resource can have different multiple projects, the
projects are meant to be deployed at the team layer, wherein different people, different colleagues and teammates can
quickly collaborate on projects and iterate on these projects together. And then within a project, you have a workspace.
That workspace is basically a single plane where you can take advantage of deploying models from the model catalog area,
creating agents from the agent service, and just doing everything in an AI-oriented fashion. So you have a resource. You
have then multiple projects within that resource. And then a single plane that's called as the workspace for each
individual project where your teammates and colleagues can collaborate with each other. And then for each individual
Microsoft Foundry resource that you have deployed within your Azure account, you get multiple different endpoints. And
these multiple different endpoints could be used for those pre-built predictive AI services, like making use of the
text-to-speech, speech-to-text conversion, and then maybe image recognition, object recognition use cases, or language
analysis use cases, everything that comes under the pre-built predictive AI world. And then different kinds of endpoints
wherein you can make these API calls to these Gen AI models, like large language models from different kinds of vendors,
and these image generation models too. So now your resource becomes that single ecosystem where you have multiple
different endpoints that you can throw these API calls to different kinds of AI resources depending upon your use cases.
And then these endpoints are protected with API endpoints. So you obviously have the capability to authenticate your
request using an API key. Now that API key, you get two API keys, primary key and secondary key, that are also attached
with your Microsoft Foundry resource. You can rotate your keys, use those keys to authorize your API request, and then
you also can use Microsoft Anthra ID authentication to authorize your API request. Because at the end of the day,
Microsoft Foundry is a platform as a service resource that's deployed within your Azure account. So you get to take
advantage of all of these capabilities that resources within your Azure account have an access to. So that's a
screenshot that I took from my Microsoft Foundry resource. You could see I have a resource that's deployed on my Azure
portal. And then just under this resource management area, you have this projects section, wherein you can monitor what
different projects and what different people have been assigned to those projects within this single resource. And then
this keys and endpoint area, from there you can fetch your API keys. You can see I have buttons to generate key one and
to generate key two. I can rotate these keys. And then I have multiple different endpoints. So I have endpoints for
these OpenAI services, meaning when I want to throw requests to these large language models that are from OpenAI, namely
GPT 4.1, GPT 5, all of that. So I'm going to make use of the API endpoints that are contained in this OpenAI tab. And
then there's this other tab that's called as the AI services tab. Now the AI services tab contains the API endpoints
that you can use to access computer vision, content safety, document intelligence, language translation, and then
text-to-speech, speech-to-text conversion. So there are two different endpoints for both of these capabilities also. And
there's another API endpoint for text translation services. So this AI services tab contains the API endpoints for my
predictive AI services, whereas the OpenAI tab contains my API endpoint for OpenAI large language models. And then for
different kind of models that I want to deploy from, let's say, different kinds of windows like Anthropic, Google
Gemini, because these are eventually contained in the model catalog in the Microsoft Foundry resource, I can quickly go
to the Foundry tab and grab the API endpoints for those different kinds of models. So everything, all of these API
endpoints are contained within this single ecosystem, being the Microsoft Foundry resource, as you can see on your
screen. All right. So I guess that's pretty much it for the video. That was all about understanding the entire typical
setup of a Microsoft Foundry resource, what's there included within a resource, within a project, within a workspace,
and what kind of endpoints do you get as part of your Microsoft Foundry resource, and from where you can use your
predictive AI services and your JNI services and whatnot. All right. So I guess that's pretty much it. Without further
ado, let's quickly move on to the next set of videos.
