SECTION: 3 AI-200 Primers and Foundations
LECTURE_ID: 8
TITLE: Lab: Deploying a Microsoft Foundry Resource (Hands-On Lab)
TRANSCRIPT_LENGTH: 9118
---
Now with the help of this video we'll quickly deploy a Microsoft Foundry resource, create a project within that resource
and yep that's just about it. So I'm on bootloader.com and then I'm going to go to the search bar and search for
Microsoft Foundry. So when you search for Microsoft Foundry this is the resource that we're looking to deploy, the one
with a purple logo. Alright so I'm going to click on this and then you shall go to the Foundry section just under the
use with Foundry panel over here. So that's the first option that we're talking about and then let's click on the create
button and I'm going to create a new resource group for this. So I'm going to name my resource group as AI901KuljothRG
if that works. Yeah that works. So that's my resource group and now I'm going to name my Microsoft Foundry resource. So
let's name it as AI901FoundryRE and that also works. So that's going to be the name of my Microsoft Foundry resource and
then for the region I'm just going to go ahead with Sweden Central because that's the closest region to my place where I
live and it works every time for me. So you can go ahead with any region for your Microsoft Foundry resource deployment.
It'll be absolutely good to go and then let's create our first project. So with the creation of this resource a default
project within that resource also gets created. You can name that accordingly. So let's name it as AI901KuljothRG
project if that works. Yep that works and now we'll just go ahead with the default values in the rest of the tabs. The
storage, network, identity, encryption and the tags tab. So I'm going to click on the review plus create button that's
going to just make sure that I go ahead with the default values in the rest of the tabs. Wait for the final validation
to get over and once that's done we'll be good to go with finally deploying the resource as well as the project within
that resource. So I'm going to click on the create button over here and then wait for the resource and the project to
get deployed. So I'm going to skip this video to the part within I have the resource deployment successfully completed.
So now I have this resource deployment completed. Let's go to our resource. I'm going to click on this button. You can
even navigate via your resource group and yeah that's how it opens up. So in the overview section there's an option to
go to something that's called as the Foundry portal. Now this Foundry portal is that graphical user interface that we'll
be working our way through throughout this course and that's going to help us deploy models from the model catalog,
manage our agents in the agent service section and then build our way through creating these AI applications
essentially. Now before we can go to the Foundry portal I just want to show you the resource management section over
here. So if you click quickly draw your attention to the resource management section there's a project section wherein
you can govern what projects sit within this resource and the keys and endpoint area. So if you go to the project
section right now we just have currently a single project that's up and working. So that's my project AI901 Kuljyoth
project that's the default project created with the resource. You can create different kinds of project, assign
different kinds of people with the appropriate role-based access permissions to these individual projects that
eventually sit within a single Microsoft Foundry resource. Now if you go to the keys and endpoint area which is just
under the projects section. Now from here you'll be able to grab all the values for your endpoints as well as for your
keys. So in the top of section I can see that I can grab the values from the primary and the secondary key which will be
used for the purpose of authentication to these API endpoints and then you have different kinds of endpoints. So you
have a Foundry resource endpoint that's in the Foundry section over here so that's the API endpoint and then you have
these endpoints that you can use in the OpenAI section to access your OpenAI related large language models like GPD 4.1,
GPD 5.2, Chat all of those LLMs and then an AI services section that has an AI services endpoint, a speech to text, text
to speech and a text translation endpoint that you can use to gain an access to these pre-built predictive AI services
like computer vision, content safety, document intelligence, language translation and the speech-based services also.
Now let's quickly navigate to the Foundry portal. So I'm going to go to the overview tab and then click on go to Foundry
portal. Now this takes me to a URL which starts with ai.azure.com and internally it's going to get routed to my Foundry
resource and then the associated project. I will need to sign myself in so I'm going to click on my account and that's
going to sign myself in and then we'll hopefully be able to access the Foundry resource and the project from this
graphical user interface. Yeah so there you go that's the Foundry portal that I'm talking about just make sure if this
screen doesn't appear for you just make sure that you toggle this new Foundry button to on that's going to take you to
the new Foundry portal that's the new Foundry portal that's where I'm on and then you have the API key, the project
endpoint and the Azure OpenAI endpoint on the overview or the home section. Now if you go to the discover tab from the
discover tab there's this model catalog area that hosts this entire array of models so if you click on models that takes
you to the model catalog area over here. You can see I have models from Anthropic so there's cloud office 4.7 from
Microsoft so there's you know Microsoft AI image generation model and then there are models from DeepSeek from OpenAI so
GPT chat latest GPT real-time whisper so that's an audio recognition model and then models from grok also so a couple of
models that you can take advantage of the latest models from OpenAI are absolutely there GPT 5.4 mini GPT 5.4 nano and
there's and then there's also model from Microsoft which is the model router in fact and then these cloud models also so
that's the model catalog area that I'm talking about. Now there's also a leaderboard section so if you click on the
leaderboard section over here that should just display you a sort of leaderboard that ranks these models in terms of
their quality index the safety score the throughput value the benchmark in terms of their costing their financial
costing and then from here you can compare all sort of these models like GPT 5.5 takes the lead in terms of the quality
index the safety the throughput which is the amount of API requests served per second and then the benchmark cost also
all right and now if you go to the build section over here which is just beside the discover tab in the top most section
of the screen now this opens up the agent service for you the foundry agent service so in the agents section you can
quickly take a look at and create some agents you can even create some workflows which are nothing but multi-agentic
systems and then from the model section which is just under the agent section you can manage and take a look at all of
your model deployments that are working within this resource so the the step goes something like this you first of all
deploy a model from the model catalog area and then you can quickly govern those models and the models that you have
deployed from the model catalog area will be visible under this models section and then there's also this fine tuning
section wherein you can create or fine tune your own custom large language models now this is something that we won't
really cover for this course because it goes out of the scope for this course but yeah that's something that you can
also do and then there's this tool section wherein you can create all sort of tools API plugins plugins for your agents
in the foundry portal itself then the knowledge section from wherein you can set up knowledge bases that connect your
agents to some enterprise knowledge that might be contained in places like your crm systems your sharepoint sites your
one drive accounts and even in your sql databases for an enterprise or an organizational setup now if you go to the
operate section that's just besides the build area this is the foundry control plane that i'm talking about from here
you'll be able to see the number of running agents for your account the estimated cost for all of these agents that are
pretty much up and running and then the token usage like what sort of api calls were sent to your agent and that
resulted in what amount of usage and then things like the agent success rate which means the agent ran successfully what
number of times in response to these incoming api calls so you know an absolute view of all of that stuff and yeah
that's it all right so i guess that's pretty much it for the video that was all about deploying a microsoft foundry
resource having a quick walk through of the foundry portal itself and yep without further ado let's quickly move on to
the next set of videos
