SECTION: 3 AI-200 Primers and Foundations
LECTURE_ID: 9
TITLE: Lab: Deploying OpenAI Model and Chat Playground Demo (Hands-On Lab)
TRANSCRIPT_LENGTH: 10713
---
With the help of this video, we'll be quickly deploying our first instance of a large language model, probably from the
OpenAI world. We'll also take a look at how you can interact with that deployed large language model in the chat
playground in your Microsoft Foundry resource. To perform this lab, I'm on my Microsoft Foundry portal, that's on
ai.azure.com, that's connected to my Microsoft Foundry resource. We need to go to the model catalog area. For the model
catalog area, I click on the ''Discover'' tab, that's just beside the ''Home'' tab in the Foundry portal. Then I'm going
to go to the ''Models'' section, that's just under the ''Overview'' tab, right over there. Now, I'm going to search for
an OpenAI model, and that model would be GPT 4.1. Now, the thing is, these model deployments are only available in a set
specific region. For instance, GPT 4.1 is available to be deployed in Sweden central region. Now, for some of the other
reason, if you deployed your resource in a region that doesn't support the deployment of GPT 4.1, just make sure that
you deploy any model that is a chat completion model. You can search for GPT 5, GPT 4.1, GPT 4.0, and then just make
sure that the model that you're deploying is a chat completion model. That's just written below the model description
panel then and there itself. That should be a chat completion model. I'm going to go ahead, click on the GPT 4.1 model
button over there. Then you can see it contains things like, what's the model details, the deployments, the benchmarks,
a responsible AI segment, and then a license segment also. Then I'm going to click on the ''Deploy'' option in the
top-most right section of the screen, and just make sure that you click on the ''Custom Settings'' section. When you
click on the ''Custom Settings'' section, you can name your deployment. I'm going to name my deployment as GPT 4.1
Guljot. I'll attach my name at the end, and the deployment type will be set to global standard. Now, here are a couple
of different deployment types that you can go ahead with. The global standard is the most cost-effective route in a way
that in a global standard deployment, it will only be built for the number of API calls, and the number of tokens that
you send to your engine, and the number of tokens that you get back as output from the large language model itself. You
won't be built for the underlying infrastructure, but for other kinds of model deployment types like global provision
throughput, data zone provision throughput, you will have to pay an upfront cost, and what that means is you will be
also built for the underlying infrastructure, and not necessarily for only the time that you use the model. I'm just
going to go ahead with the global standard in which I will be built on a per API call basis, on a paper API call basis
with the highest rate limits. Then you can even set the tokens per minute rate limit from over here, which is now
currently set to do 150,000 tokens per minute rate limit. That's more than enough. We'll go ahead with the default
setting for this. Then you can even apply the default content guardrails over here. The content guardrails are applied
at the large language model layer and they sit as a layer between the incoming user query and the model API. If the
incoming user query contains things like instances of harm, hate speech, violence, and adult content, or if the model
output also contains any of these things, the content safety filter will filter out those instances of hate, violence,
self-harm, and adult content also. By default, a default content guardrail is applied to your model. In this case, it's
a default V2 content guardrail. I think that's pretty much good to go. Let's click on the deploy button and that should
hopefully deploy our GPT 4.1 large language model instance. As soon as your model gets deployed, you're going to be
redirected to what I call as the chat playground area. That's where we exactly are. Now, before we can move forward with
the chat playground area, I will also want to show you from where you can see the model deployments. You have to go to
the Build section, that's just beside the Discover tab, and you go to the Models area. Then from the Models area, in the
deployment section, you'll be able to see the model that you'd deployed just now, and then in the future, all the models
that you'll deploy within that foundry resource. I could see I have this model deployment, which is GPT 4.1 Kuljot, and
that's a GPT 4.1 LLM instance. Now, clicking on this model itself will take me to the chat playground section and that's
where we currently are. Now, in the chat playground section, you can tweak with model configurations a bit, set in the
different kinds of system prompts that will internally determine the behavior of the large language model, and also
throw some user queries to the model itself. I'm going to tweak with the system prompt a bit. Currently, it's set to you
are an AI assistant that helps people find information. I'm going to change it and make it behave as Batman. That's
going to be you are Batman, and the protector and Dark Knight of Gotham City. Our LLM is now going to behave as Batman,
and that's probably a dream come true situation. Imagine talking to Batman in real life. That could only happen in
dreams. But anyways, jokes aside, the instruction being you are Batman, the protector and Dark Knight of Gotham City.
Let's see how the responses come about when I type in some user queries. I'm going to type in the first user query as,
hello, my name is Kuljoth. How are you doing? All right. The response looks something like this. Hello, Kuljoth, this is
Batman. I don't usually indulge in small talk, but I'm always vigilant. Gotham's never quiet and neither am I. How are
you doing? Anything suspicious in your area? Awesome. And now if I ask it something on the lines of, let's say, how is
Gotham City doing today? Anything from Joker's side? Let's take a look at how the response looks like. All right, so
it's a bit longer response. Gotham never truly rests. The city pulses with danger, corruption, and shadows lurking
around every corner, blah, blah, blah. Stay alert with Joker. Chaos is only ever a heartbeat away. That's great. And
then for each of these responses, you'll also observe that I do get back some traces. You know, the first response took
in around like 2.2 seconds and then a total token transaction of 84 tokens. Now, if you click on this token icon over
here, you'll see that the input tokens come to about 36 and output tokens come to about 48. And for the second query,
the input tokens come to about 36. The input was more or less on the same lines and the output comes to about 134 tokens
because the output is a bit longer than the previous one. And that's exactly what's reflected in the token consumption
box over here also. All right. And then you can even change the instruction set a bit. Let's type in you are a travel
assistant that helps users plan their journeys. So I'm going to make it behave as a travel assistant. And before I do
that, I'm also going to clear the chat section over here. And that's just by clicking on this button. And then I'm also
going to tweak some parameters. So you see that just beside the model selection area, the model dropdown area, where you
can select all of your deployed models, there's also this parameter section over here. So if you click on this parameter
section, you can include things like what should be the max completion token count. Currently it's set to 13,107. So if
you drop it down a bit, maybe to 1,000 tokens or 2,000 tokens, you won't see much larger of responses that you get back
from your large language model instance. And then you can even tweak that temperature parameter a bit. Make it go all
the way down to zero or make it go all the way up to two. So the larger the value of the temperature parameter is to the
upper bound, that means more creative are the responses from your LLM instance will be. And the closer the value of the
temperature parameter is to the lower bound, with the lower bound in this case being zero, that means the more accurate
and the less creative your responses from the large language model would be. So if you're using your LLM for a legal
writing assistant, then probably you would have to dial down the value of the temperature to a value that's closer to
zero. But then currently I'm making it behave as a travel assistant and I need some creative responses. I will dial it
all the way up to a value that's closer to the upper bound and then I'm gonna keep it two, that's the highest possible
value. Let's do that. And now I'm gonna ask it some questions. So help me plan a trip to India in summers. And let's see
the kind of response we get back. So you see the response is completely erratic. It kind of mixes some different
languages in the response and it's not at all something that we were expecting. This is not a good response and the
reason being that we messed up setting the temperature value. We set it all the way up to two and that completely
randomizes the response that's generated back from the engine. I'm gonna dial it down to a value which could look
something like 0.7. I'm okay with 0.7. I'm gonna clear this chat window and then let's try out the query again. And now
the response should be pretty good. So you see, tweaking these values a bit can make or break your large language model
and your AI applications. So it's pretty important that you understand what you're doing and you do these changes within
limits. So now it's good. It talks about, I'd love to help you plan a trip to India in the summers to give you the best
recommendations. Could you please share a bit more about your preferences? Talks about these preferences, some questions
for me and then some general tips for summer travel in India, like talks about weather, some popular summer destinations
like South India, Northeast India, Himalayan hill stations, some cultural sites and a bit about the monsoon weather as
well. And then plans a sample summer itinerary for me, like day one to three should be in Delhi, day four to six should
be in Shimla and then day 13 to 14 should be in Agra. And then some trips like book trains and domestic flights in
advance, consider local festivals and holidays and yep, that's just about it. All right, so I guess that's pretty much
it for the video that was all about taking a look at how you can deploy your large language model instances in Microsoft
Foundry. And then we also interacted with the model in the chat playground itself. That's it, without further ado, let's
quickly move on to the next set of videos.
