SECTION: 3 AI-200 Primers and Foundations
LECTURE_ID: 10
TITLE: Introduction to the Microsoft Foundry SDK
TRANSCRIPT_LENGTH: 3228
---
With the help of this video, let's have a quick introduction to the Microsoft Foundry SDK, and that's the most important
SDK from a hands-on or the demo perspective for all the labs in this course, because this is the primary SDK that we'll
be using to have a code-first approach to establish our connections to the Microsoft Foundry resource to build some
lightweight AI applications. In the hands-on activities in the labs that we do for this course, we will be mainly
interacting or running those code scripts in Python as a language, and that's how you simply just define that Foundry
project client using the Foundry SDK. This is an object of class AI project client. The AI project client definition
over here will include two parameters, the Foundry project endpoint. Now, that's the API endpoint that you'll get back
from the Foundry portal, and then the credential. The credential could be in the form of an API key or Microsoft Anthra
ID. In this code snippet, we're just using Microsoft Anthra ID to authenticate a connection to the Microsoft Foundry
resource. All in all, whenever you want to use the Foundry SDK to establish a connection to your Microsoft Foundry
resource, you have to create this object, which is the AI project client. Now, this AI project client has internally
some sub-clients that you can use and instantiate depending on your use case. This AI project client has an OpenAI
client that you can use to throw some API requests to the OpenAI models, to the OpenAI LLMs that are deployed within the
Foundry resource. Whenever we want to make use of these API calls that will be sent to these OpenAI models in a Foundry
resource, we will internally instantiate from the AI project client and OpenAI client. But then you can also create some
vendor-specific clients like an Anthropic client or a Google Gemini client, depending on the case scenario. If you have
a Cloud model that you would like to use instead of an OpenAI model that you have to create an Anthropic client. The key
takeaway here is that the AI project client sits at the topmost level, and then depending on your use case, whether you
want to use an OpenAI model or a model from Anthropic, and provided you have that model deployed in your Foundry project
itself, you can internally create some sub-clients and then throw these API calls to these respective models. Then for
all the agents that we'll be creating in the Foundry agent service, this AI project client and the Foundry SDK will
primarily be used to connect to those agents also. This AI project client has an agent client that can help you with the
creation and management and the invocation of these agents that will be created in the Foundry agent service. The key
takeaway from over here is, create a Foundry AI project client first. Each and every time you want to establish a
connection to your Foundry resource, and then these sub-clients like the OpenAI client, the Anthropic client, or the
agent service client, depending on what your usage and your use case really is. All right. I guess that's pretty much it
for the video. That was all about an introduction to the Microsoft Foundry SDK. Without further ado, let's quickly move
on to the next set of videos.
