SECTION: 3 AI-200 Primers and Foundations
LECTURE_ID: 11
TITLE: Lab: Calling OpenAI Model with Foundry SDK (Hands-On Lab)
TRANSCRIPT_LENGTH: 9875
---
Alright, so with the help of this video, we'll take a look at how you can use the Microsoft Foundry SDK to call a large
language model that's deployed in your Microsoft Foundry resource. Now this is important because in the next labs that
we'll follow throughout this course will include a lot of these API calls and a lot of deployments in Microsoft Foundry
because Microsoft Foundry will form as the Gen AI powerhouse of all the labs that we'll do throughout this course. So
it's pretty important that we have a good foundational knowledge of how we can use Microsoft Foundry and throw these API
calls to these large language models and integrate these API calls in our AI applications. So in order to perform this
lab, I'm on this GitHub repository, the AI 200 GitHub repository, and then I have cloned this repository in my VS Code
environment. And now this is the Jupyter Notebook file that we'll be following for this lab, which is under this folder,
AI Foundations, and then this notebook, chartcompletions.ipynb. Now in order to run this Jupyter Notebook, we need to
fill in the .env file, which contains the environment variables. Let's quickly have a look at the environment variables.
So we need the Foundry project endpoint and the chart model deployment name as far as this lab is concerned. We won't be
filling these three environment variables for this lab. So we only need to fill these two environment variables, namely
the Foundry project endpoint and the model deployment name, which is simply the large language model that we want to
throw API call to. So I'm going to go back to my Microsoft Foundry resource in Azure portal, and we need to fetch the
Microsoft Foundry project endpoint. So for that, you need to go to the Foundry studio, which you can simply navigate to
by going to the overview section and then clicking on the go to Foundry portal button. And once you do that, it takes
you to the Foundry studio over here. Now to fetch the Foundry project endpoint, I'm going to go to the home section and
from the home section, this is the project endpoint that I'm talking about, this one. So I'm going to go ahead, copy
this value and paste it in the environment variable over here. And then we need the model deployment name. So I have a
GPD 4.1 model up and working, so I can go to the build section, go to deployments, and then this is the model that I'm
talking about, a GPD 4.1 model. You can use any chart completions model, even a GPD 4 or GPD 5.2 model, anything, as
long as it's a chart completions model. So I'll just type in the name quickly in the second environment variable, which
is GPD 4.1. All right, and control plus says to save the main changes. Now let's quickly jump to the notebook
implementation. Now before we can implement this notebook, we need to log into our Azure account via the Azure CLI, via
the terminal in VS Code. So I'm going to click on, you know, right click on the notebook in the navigation section and
then click on open an integrated terminal. And that opens up a PowerShell terminal for me. And with this PowerShell
terminal, I can use the Azure CLI to log into my Azure account. Now logging into your Azure account is important because
that's the way the code is implemented. The code uses your user account's identity to authenticate itself to the
Microsoft Foundry resource and internally to the large language model. So I'm going to type in az login and that's the
command to log into your Azure account. So as soon as you type in az login, a sign in window should open up and then you
should navigate to your account. So I'm going to click on the account that I'm going to be using and let's click on the
continue button. Now once the login is done, we are good to go and we are good to move forward with the rest of the lab.
So I close this window below and again, I'll just show you how you can even check whether you're logged into the current
account or not. So you can just type in this command, which is, you know, let me just clear it out. Yeah, you can type
in this command, which is az account show. And then it's going to show you the account that you're currently logged in.
So you can verify the email address and subscription along with the tenant ID from over here. So it looks like I'm
logged into my current account and now I'm going to move forward with the lab. All right. So I'm just going to go ahead
and select my Python environment from the device and we can go ahead and run this notebook. So we'll be making use of
the Microsoft Foundry SDK and the Microsoft Foundry SDK is this one, which is Azure AI Projects 2.0.0b2. So that's the
current version of the Microsoft Foundry SDK that we'll be using to make an API call to a large language model. In the
next code block, we'll be importing the environment variables from the .env file, namely the Foundry project endpoint
and the model deployment name. I'm going to go ahead and execute this code block. And the next thing is to set up a
Microsoft Foundry project client. So this is how we set up a Microsoft Foundry project client by creating an AI project
client object that takes in two values, the endpoint. So the endpoint will be the Foundry project endpoint that we set
in the .env file and then the credentials. And the credential over here is the default Azure credential, which means
it's going to use the credential of the user account that you signed in with the Azure CLI that we did just now. So
that's how that Microsoft Foundry project client is created. We'll be using this client to throw an API call to our
deployed large language model. So I'm going to go ahead and execute this code block also. And then because our large
language model is a GPD 4.1 model, which is in fact a model from OpenAI, we need to create an OpenAI client. And the way
you create an OpenAI client is to take the Foundry project client and then use this function, which is getOpenAIClient,
and that creates an OpenAI client for you. And we can use this OpenAI client to send a request to our GPD 4.1 model. And
then last but not the least, we'll be sending a request to our OpenAI model. And the way we do this is by using our
OpenAI client and the method .responses.create. Now in this, you need to provide the model deployment name and the
instruction. The instruction will be the system prompt. And that's going to set in the behavior of the large language
model. So in this case, it's a simple system prompt, which is, you are a helpful AI assistant. And then the input over
here needs to be the user query. The user query being, can you please tell me something about Microsoft Foundry? The
temperature is set to a value of 0.7. Now the temperature could be a value between zero and one, zero meaning that you
get back accurate responses, whereas one meaning that you get the most amount of creative responses. So we are leaning
towards the more creative side of things over here with the value set to 0.7, which is much closer to one than zero. And
then the max output tokens value is set to 1000, which means we won't get back a response which exceeds 1000 tokens in
output. And then you simply print the response output, which is at this path, output text path in the response variable.
All right, so I'm going to go ahead and take a look at the kind of response that we get back from our deployed large
language model. All right, so it indeed looks like we have a response and the response is pretty good. So the assistant
says, certainly Microsoft Foundry was an initiative by Microsoft aimed at fostering innovation. So provides me with an
overview, location and focus, goals, legacy, current status. But a point to keep in mind is, it's talking about
Microsoft Foundry as a program and not really as a Microsoft platform as a service, not really as a Microsoft product.
And that should also tell you something related to large language models. Maybe the version of the large language model
that I'm using is an older version and it wasn't trained on the dataset, which included things related to Microsoft
Foundry as a product. Maybe the dataset that the large language model was trained on was before Microsoft Foundry came
out as a platform as a service. And that's the reason why you see that it's referring to Microsoft Foundry as a
Microsoft program rather than a cloud product. So that should also tell you that in order to make these large language
models more useful, we need to provide them with external tools. And one of the solution to this could be providing the
large language model with a web search external tool so that the large language model could retrieve real-time
information. But we won't really dive into that segment because that would go out of the scope for this course. But
that's a really cool thing to know about these large language models. If I ask it something on the lines of, maybe that
could be better as in, what are some beautiful places to visit in India? And then I'm going to give it a shot. And
hopefully this time we should get back a better response because the information would be there in the large language
models training dataset and we shouldn't really have any problem. Yep. So it says India is a country of stunning
diversity with natural beauty, talks about some natural wonders like Kashmir Valley, Jammu and Kashmir, Leradak, Kerala
backwaters, Meghalaya, Valley of Flowers in Uttarakhand, which is also UNESCO World Heritage Site and some beaches and
coastlines like Goa, Andaman in Nicobar Islands, Udaipur in Rajasthan. That's it. All right. So I guess that's pretty
much it for the video. That was all about taking a look at how you can make use of a large language model deployment in
Microsoft Foundry and using the Microsoft Foundry SDK through an API call to that large language model to get back an
output. That's it. And I'll see you in the next lecture.
