SECTION: 3 AI-200 Primers and Foundations
LECTURE_ID: 12
TITLE: Intro to AI Agents and Compound AI Systems
TRANSCRIPT_LENGTH: 5566
---
All right, so with the help of this video, let's have a quick introduction to the world of AI agents and compound AI
systems. So with the advent of generative AI, people initially focused a lot on deploying primary large language models.
And what they really focused on was just generating a chatbot of some sort. But soon they realized it wasn't enough for
a good return on investment, right? Stakeholders were asking from you that if a lot of money is being spent on these
large language models and developing these applications, what sort of ROI are we getting back? It's developing a chatbot
doesn't seem to be the right fit. And that's where the birth of compound AI systems came into the picture. So the whole
idea behind compound AI systems is the fact that you build a system that can tackle AI tasks by combining multiple
interacting components. So you don't really have a chatbot that's built on top of a foundational large language model.
That's only good for having a chat back and forth. But that foundational large language model could also have the
capability to call some APIs to perform some operations on some back-end task or to interact with another software,
right? That's the whole idea behind compound AI systems. Because once you do that, you sort of automate business
processes, you sort of automate business workflows, and then it justifies that you are getting back a good return on
investment on top of all the financial and the talent-intensive investment that you're making on generating these
applications alike. Now I'd like to think of AI agents as compound AI systems because these are very similar in nature.
So in a typical AI agent setup, you have a foundational large language model. You give that foundational large language
model the capability to call some APIs or to interact with external systems. And you also use the natural language
processing capability of the large language model to take a look at the intent of the user query, and then dynamically,
at runtime and execution, plan out the sequence of steps that it feels will be best suited for making use of these tools
and API plugins that you give it an access to. So essentially, we are not just building an application on top of a large
language model, but we are also providing that LLM with external system components. And that's exactly the definition of
a compound AI system too. So the industry is still defining AI agents. However, it's generally understood as an AI
system where the model makes some or all of the planning decisions in contrast to hard-coded logic because you're trying
to empower the LLM to dynamically plan the sequence of executions at runtime. Now this wasn't the case with the earlier
enterprise software systems that we were building. We were hard-coding the logic with if-else loops, but with these AI
agents and AI applications alike, the sequence of steps gets planned and executed dynamically at runtime. Now, this is
how the evolution really looked like from back in those days. Well, it's not really, I mean, we haven't been too old
experimenting with these AI agents, but again, we have experienced a lot of changes in the entire LLM continuum. So if
you considered the era of 2021, back when ChatGPT came out for the first time, people were happily building ChatGPT-like
chatbots by just using foundational large language models and then throwing some API calls through these LLMs and then
you would get back a response from the LLM. So people were happy with that. But once enterprises locked in on developing
these LLMs, they wanted a better return on investment and a better return on the money and the talent that they were
pouring in. So that's when the idea behind taking an LLM and giving it the capability to interact with external systems
arose. So in the transition period, what these developers were doing was they were taking an LLM, providing it with
connections to external system, but then they were not really letting the LLM plan out the execution in a dynamic
nature. They were still hard coding the logic of the execution of these steps, like in what order should the execution
look like. But then they soon realized that multiple users will be interacting with our application and to make our
application completely autonomous and as automated as possible, we also need to give the LLM the autonomy to sort of
plan out this series of executions dynamically at runtime by taking a look at the intent of the user query. And that's
how AI agents were born. So AI agents or a typical AI agent setup is just a foundational large language model with
access to multiple tools and external systems like APIs or external knowledge bases. And then the LLM also has the
autonomy to plan out the series of executions of these tools in a defined order that's dynamically generated based on
the intent of the user query, like what the user wants the application to do and wants the AI agent to do. So an agent
put simply is LLMs, a series of instructions that determine how the agent is going to behave, and then tools, some
actions and retrieval functions that the agent could perform. And then you also give the LLM the autonomy to carry out
the planning of the execution of these steps in a defined order. So that's how an agent should eventually look like and
effectively function for a user. All right, so I guess that's pretty much it for the video. That was all about an
introduction to the compound AI system paradigm and also to AI agents. Without further ado, let's quickly move on to the
next set of videos.
