SECTION: 3 AI-200 Primers and Foundations
LECTURE_ID: 13
TITLE: Lab: Creating a Foundry Agent in Portal (Hands-On Lab)
TRANSCRIPT_LENGTH: 16769
---
So with this video, we'll be creating our first agent in Microsoft Foundry. So I'm on my Foundry project resource and
then in the build area. And then to create my agent, I'm going to be working in this agents section. So let's get
started with our first agent. So let's name our agent as demo agent and hit the create button. So this is our agent
looks like. So you can power your agent with first of all, a foundational large language model. So I'm going to go ahead
and select the model that I deployed, which was GPT 5.2 in this case. And now this agent also follows something that's
called as versioning. So every time you make a change to your agent, such as changing a foundational large language
model or maybe adding more tools or deleting one that might exist, that's going to create a new version of the agent. So
if you hit on the save button, that's going to create a new version. And then this will be updated from version one to
version two. And then it also supports history tracking. So if you want to shift from version one, from version two to
version one, go back in time or move forward in time, you can absolutely do that. And even compare versions in which
you'll be able to see what changes were made to your agent. So in a way, they have sort of implemented a versioning
control on these agents, just like you would do with container images if you're working in the web application world or
maybe versioning your applications also along the software development lifecycle. So, you know, that that inspiration is
still there. So you can write your instruction for the agent. So I'm just going to type in you are a helpful AI
assistant. And yeah, and now from here, let's take a look at what tools can you add to your agent. So if you click on
add tools, you have a couple of things to select from. So the first first tool is file search that's going to enable
your agent to search content from files that you can upload from your local device. So that creates like a local vector
store. And then the agent has an access to this local vector store to perform search operations on the uploaded files
and give you back a response. The second one is Azure AI search. So if you have enterprise knowledge, which is pretty
big, which is which includes a lot of unstructured data and you want to create a grounding knowledge source out of that,
you go ahead with Azure AI search, which is Microsoft's state of the art AI enrichment pipeline and search solution that
has vector integration deeply embedded into it. The third one is web search that allows the agent to search the
internet. Then there's also grounding with Bing custom search in which you can provision a Bing resource back in
portal.azure.com, apply filters like what websites will your agent have an access to and only search from those specific
websites. So that's absolutely there. And then give your agent an access to this tool so that it's going to perform
internet operations, internet search operations in real time. You can even bring in knowledge from SharePoint. There's
this browser automation tool that allows your agent to replicate human behavior in a browser environment, just like you
would go ahead in a browser, click on buttons and perform some operations. What if you want your agent to do? So browser
automation works in that manner. And even the web search, you can do that. And now there's also this code interpreter
tool that allows the agent to simulate a sandbox Python environment and execute Python code and give you back an output
of that executed Python code. So if you want your agent to, let's say, generate some charts based on a data set using
matplotlib in Python so that the agent could, first of all, generate the code. Provision a Python sandbox environment
with system dependencies and then execute that Python code and give you an output, which is going to be a chart at the
end of the day that was generated using some Python libraries. You can absolutely do that. Now, as far as
knowledge-based code, you can quickly connect your system to FoundryIQ. Now, from FoundryIQ, you can bring in data from
SharePoint. Now, from FoundryIQ, you can bring in data from Enterprise Knowledge Bases, from Azure Data Lake Storage,
even from multi-cloud environments like AWS S3 with connectors, and then create a single source of truth for your agent
from which it can perform search operations and then present you with the answers. So that capability is also there.
Although we're not going into the details of FoundryIQ, as this would go out of the scope for this course right now, but
yeah, for you to establish a single source of enterprise knowledge truth, you go ahead with FoundryIQ and attach that as
knowledge to your agent. And as far as memory goes, you can also create a memory store, a Foundry memory store for
individual users that will be interacting with your agent. So the part about what sort of information for the user will
be stored in that memory store across user sessions, that logic is handled or is offloaded from you, and that's handled
by Microsoft Foundry, so you don't really need to worry about that. And then for this agent, you can also apply some
custom guardrails, although there's going to be a default guardrail that's applied to the agent, and that indeed is the
one that's also applied to the foundational large language model that's powering the agent, which in this case is
Microsoft Default Version 2, and then it protects the agent against sensitive data leakage, task drift, and indirect
prompt injections with configuration set for jailbreak attempts, content safety filters applied, and also protected
materials. Now let's attach the web search tool to our agent and see it in action in real time. So I'm going to click on
Add, and let's quickly go to web search, and I'm going to click on Add Tool, and now let's hit on the Save button. All
right, so let's click on Add. So likewise, our web search tool has been added to our agent, and let's click on the Save
button. So that's going to save version 3 for our agent because we just entered a new system prompt as well as attached
a new web search tool. So that's version 3 for my agent, and that's what you could see from the versioning section over
there. Okay, so I'm going to ask my agent, can you please, in bullet points, summarize the top global news headlines for
the day? And now the internal orchestration engine for the agent, the part that handles what tools the agent should call
and in what execution manner, that internal orchestration engine should quickly utilize the web search tool because
that's the intent of a user query, and we'll also be able to see that from the agent trace stack. I'll also show you how
the agent trace stack looks like. So these are the couple of headlines in bullet points, and I also see some citations.
So it took the information from Al Jazeera, 15k tokens in total were involved, used this foundational large language
model, and it also indeed used this web search tool that we provided our agent with. Now, there's something that's
called a trace section. So if you go to the traces area, before even going to the traces area, let's take a look at
this, which is AI quality. So if you click on AI quality, it gives you the evaluation, right? Evaluation in two
segments. One is intent resolution, whether the agent or assistant was able to identify the intent of the user query and
call these tools or carry out the execution plan accordingly, which in this case has been assigned a score of five out
of five. The second one is task adherence. If as part of the intent resolution, a tool call was made, how successfully
did the agent carry out that tool call? In this case, it's the web search tool call. So it also receives a green signal
in this case. Now, for you to be able to see what tool was called and in what manner and the number of total tokens
included in the transaction, both as input and output tokens, there's this agent trace tag that you should definitely
take advantage of. So if you go to the traces segment, you'll be able to see the conversations that users have had with
your agent in the past. So whenever you type in a user query within that same chat conversation, you sort of have a chat
with the agent in a conversation state that's assigned a conversation ID. So if you click on conversation ID, it's going
to present you with a list of all that took within the conversation. So all the steps that took within the conversation.
So that's the user query and that's the agent response. And if I go to the metadata, I'll also be able to take a look at
the total number of tokens involved in the entire transaction. And that's 14,269 total tokens. And the steps are also
listed down over here. So the first one was reasoning. The GPD 5.2 chat performed reasoning as to sort of generate an
execution plan by performing intent resolution on the user query. And as part of its reasoning step, it made use of this
web search call, the internal orchestration engine made use of this tool call and performed a web search operation.
Right. And that is what's done. And as part of invoking that tool, a query was run, which was Reuters top global news
headlines, December 25, 2025, which indeed is going to return me back as part of the web search operation top 10 or top
global news headlines on this very day. And last but not the least, once the agent got back the response from the web
search call, it finally did display this kind of response to me. So that's how you could also sort of take advantage of
the agent trace tag to see how your agent is behaving. And if some of the other error is kind of keeping you back, you
know, is dragging you back, you can also drill down to that error via the agent trace tag that's displayed over here.
Now let's make our agent a bit more complex. Let's add one more tool to our agent, and that's going to be the code
interpreter tool. So I'm going to quickly add the code interpreter tool and save a new version for the agent. Now what I
would like to see is, first of all, we'll hit the agent with a simple query and see if the internal orchestration engine
is able to correctly route queries to different tools. And second of all, we'll hit the agent with a combined query. And
the combined query should, first of all, make the internal orchestration engine route the request to the web search tool
and parse the output from the web search tool to the code interpreter tool. And the output of the code interpreter tool
should be my final output. So that's how the overall flow will essentially look like. And let's try it out. So first of
all, let's quickly invoke the agent to only call the code interpreter tool. So I'm going to type in, or maybe start a
new chat session by clicking on this icon, and that's going to create a new conversation ID for me. Now within a
conversation ID, all the parse messages are also going to be stored as long as they remain within the contextual window
of your agent. So you could, in some or the other way, also use a conversation object along with the conversation ID as
a chat history store of some sort, right, in addition to this foundry memory store that preserves chat conversations
across user sessions. All right. So I'm going to quickly type in the query, please prepare a chart for me with values
and the values are following. So oranges has a value of 40. Apples has a value 50. And grapes. Okay, so grapes has a
value. Let's keep it 100. Right. And that's it. So I think, I mean, this user query has nothing to do with the price of
oranges, apples, and grapes. That's just arbitrary values that I took. But somehow we should be able to see Code
Interpreter in action. Okay. So indeed, first of all, if you take a look at the execution, it quickly created this
Python code, right, using matplotlib. So it used the matplotlib to create that chart for me. Now once that Python code
was created, it took help of the Code Interpreter tool. And that's what you could exactly see over here with the
transaction having 5,000 tokens going both inwards and outwards, and gave me back this PNG formatted file. This is an
image. So if I click on this image, and that gets downloaded for me. And if I try to open this, this is how everything
appears. So oranges 40, apples is 50, and grapes, although the spelling is pretty, that's completely wrong, but it's
good. The agent took it the same way as I typed in. It's set to a value of 100. Awesome. Now let's try to, or before we
can even go ahead with another user query, I'll just quickly show you the agent trace stack. So we started a new chat
session, and that's created a new conversation ID for me. And if I try to go inside of this, you'll see that indeed in
one of those steps, Code Interpreter call is made. The call to the Code Interpreter tool is being made. So that's
clearly highlighted over there. And going through the metadata, the total transaction comes out to be around 4K tokens
in total. All right. Now I'll go back to the Playground section, start a new chat, and I'll quickly type in, please,
after performing, please perform a web search, please perform a web search to get stock prices for the day for, let's
say, I'm going to keep it apple. So I'm going to type in the ticker symbols, which is AAPL for Apple, MSFT for
Microsoft. And I don't know what's for Google and for Google. So I'm just going to type in Google like this. And then
please create a pie or maybe a chart for me, a chart for me for visualization. So first of all, it should perform a web
search and making use of the web search tool and then parse the output from the web search tool to my Code Interpreter
tool and create a chart for me, which I can quickly download as a PNG formatted file. OK, so it's making use of the Code
Interpreter tool after it's made use of the web search tool. And that's exactly what I see. OK, so if you like, I can
also show percentage change for the day, plot a historical trend or export this chart as an image or CSV for download.
So I'll type in, I would like you to export this image. This image for download. Now, because I'm also typing this
within the same conversation object, the agent retains a history of what I wanted to do and what sort of conversation we
had in the past. And then that's the stock price chart that was generated for me. That's a PNG file. And let's hope it
gets quickly downloaded. So this is how the chart essentially looks like with Apple stock being priced at $273,
Microsoft taking the lead with close to $500 and Google priced at $308 for the day. And let's quickly go to the agent
trace stack. So I'm going to go to the agent traces section and that's the conversation ID, the latest one. And indeed,
if you take a look at things, first of all, let's take a look at the total transaction. So it comes out to be around
10,000 tokens. And then as part of its step, first of all, made a web search call so as to get back the information for
the latest stock prices of Apple, Google and Microsoft. And then once it got back information from the web search call,
parsed that output as an input to the code interpreter call, created a Python script, executed that script in a sandbox
environment and gave me that generated PNG file with the chart included in it. And that's how the execution flow
essentially looked like. And I think we're pretty much done with the demo. And I just want to show you a couple of
things before we can close this. So if you go to the YAML section, you can also see how the agent definition looks like.
So your agent has these tools, web search, code interpreter tool. And if you even want to call the agent out from a
Python SDK in a code first environment, you can absolutely do that. So if you go to the code section, that gives you a
sample code that you can try out in your coding environment using the Python SDK. Support is also there for JavaScript
and C Sharp. And if you want to go ahead, you can even publish this agent to Microsoft Teams and the Microsoft 365
Copilot ecosystem. You can absolutely do that, although that goes out of the scope for this course until now. We're not
going to do that. But yeah, I hope you get the idea. The functionality is absolutely there, although that would take a
couple of steps more to publish it to M365 Copilot and Teams. Setting up your infrastructure is what I mean by that. OK,
I guess that's pretty much it. That was all about creating a first agent, seeing tool calls in action, and even a multi
tool call scenario. And we also took a look at how conversation objects behave along with their conversation IDs for
that agent. That's pretty much it. Without further ado, let's quickly move on to the next set of videos.
