SECTION: 3 AI-200 Primers and Foundations
LECTURE_ID: 14
TITLE: Intro to Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG)
TRANSCRIPT_LENGTH: 10858
---
Alright, so with the help of this video, we're going to have a bit of introduction to a concept that's called as RAG,
that stands for Retrieval Augmented Generation. It's a concept from the generative AI world and that's something that
we'll explore in a couple of other modules for the course, namely Azure Cosmos DB, how do you build a RAG system, a RAG
chatbot, which is a chatbot that works on your enterprise data with databases like Azure Cosmos DB, Azure Managed
PostgreSQL, and even Azure Managed Redis. So this video will serve as a primer for understanding all of those videos in
the modules for the course. So it's better that we get ourselves comfortable with the concept of retrieval augmented
generation in the first place. So to start understanding what is retrieval augmented generation, I think it's a fair
thing to consider the problem statements that we are facing with the world of large language models. The problem with
these large language models is that they are trained on static data. They do not know your private or latest enterprise
data. If you go to chat GPT and if you prompt it and ask it something on the lines of information that's included in
your enterprise data, maybe some PDF documents that are proprietary to your organization, chat GPT just won't be able to
answer information related to those documents because those documents weren't in the training data set on which chat GPT
was trained on. Similarly, if you go ahead and ask chat GPT with the web search tool turned off about a recent global
news, it's not going to return you answers unless and until that web search tool is turned on. So this is the problem
with large language models. Large language models, to make them very functional, you need to provide them with a set of
other out-of-the-blocks plugins or tools or maybe implement the architecture that we're going to discuss that's called
retrieval augmented generation in which you use these large language models to eventually build a chatbot with the
chatbot having information of your proprietary data. So there you go, introducing retrieval augmented generation. It's
an architecture that grounds LLM responses and external knowledge. So if you wanted to build a chatbot that has
information derived from the PDF documents from structured as well as unstructured data that's proprietary to your
organization, you would implement this architecture. So it solves problems such as hallucination, data freshness, and
private data limitations of these large language models and these applications like chat GPT. So retrieval augmented
generation consists of three steps. First is developing a retrieval pipeline which is going to help your large language
model retrieve the right set of information, the right set of documents. Then the second step is what you call as
augmentation, making an instruction set, a prompt, a user query that involves the original user question that the user
was inquiring about along with the retrieved set of information. So now you have an augmented prompt and then you take
this augmented prompt and send it as an API call to the large language model. So now your user prompt in the API call
has both the original user query as well as the information that was retrieved via this retrieval pipeline. So in order
to develop the first step which is the retrieval pipeline which helps the large language model via the RAG architecture
take in the user query and retrieve the right set of documents, we have to understand something that's called as vector
embeddings. So vector embeddings are a way of representing words, sentences, images, or other data as numerical vectors
in a high-dimensional space. And it's not the three-dimensional space or the two-dimensional space, the x, y, z
coordinates that we are very familiar with. I'm talking about a space that has dimensions as high as 1536 or 3072. So
the way these vector embeddings work is they try to capture the semantic meaning or the contextual meaning behind these
words, these sentences, or these phrases. And these vector embeddings, these numerical representations are generated by
something that's called as an embedding generation engine. So you have these multiple embedding generation engines like
vendors from OpenAI and Microsoft and all of these AI model providers. So if you consider this phrase over here which is
canine companion say, you can take this word, make an API call to your embedding generation model, and then you get back
these vector embeddings which are floating point numbers between the values 0 and 1 in this case, minus 1 and 1 in this
case, sorry. And then similarly you have the second phrase, you take the second phrase and then generate vector
embeddings for this phrase also. Now because these phrases have different contextual meaning aligned with them, these
represent different kinds of meanings, you'll see that the numbers in the vector embeddings, the floating point numbers,
are also different. And then you can take these vector embeddings and kind of arrange these words in a high dimensional
space. Now that's a high dimensional space that I'm talking about, but for the sake of simplicity, for the sake of
visualization, we are taking the x and y coordinate in this case. And you'll see that words with similar meaning,
phrases with similar meaning, are arranged together. So if you have a word like or a phrase like canine companion say,
it's placed together to the word woof because that's the sound that dogs make. Then feline friends say meow because
that's the sound that cats make and bovine buddies say moo because that's the sound that cows make. And all of these
phrases and words are placed in this cluster because they belong to the animal kingdom. Whereas if you consider the
second phrase which is a quarterback throws a football, now we are talking about a human over here which has no
correlation whatsoever with the animal kingdom and that's why it's placed far away from this cluster over here. And this
kind of arrangement is done by the virtue of those vector embeddings. So now that we have a pretty good understanding of
what sort of business problem is RAC trying to solve and what do you mean by vector embeddings and the three steps of
the retrieval augmented generation architecture, the retrieval step, the augmentation step, and the generation step. Now
let's try to visualize everything from a high-level perspective with the help of an example and that's a really
beautiful example that I want you to focus on. So let's go through this example in a step-by-step fashion. Now let's
assume we have a user query and the user query being how do you evaluate the fact that OpenAI CEO Sam Altman went
through a sudden dismissal by the board in just three days and then was rehired by the company resembling a real-life
version of Game of Thrones in terms of power dynamics. Now this is the user query that we want our chatbot to answer.
The first step is to retrieve those set of documents that our large language model can use as grounding knowledge as
contextual information to answer this user query. So here comes the first step that is seeing the retrieval pipeline in
action. Now in the retrieval pipeline you take this user query and you generate vector embeddings for this user query.
Now on the other hand you have a vector database which could be Azure Cosmos DB database or an Azure Postgres SQL
database. We'll take a look at how do you store vector embeddings in those databases but you have a database that has
the text from those PDF documents and then in other column you know you have those vector embeddings for the text
contained in those PDF documents. Now you have the vector embedding for the user query and the vector embeddings for the
PDF documents and then you take the vector embedding for the user query and run something that's called as a similarity
operation in which you take the user query vector embeddings and try to find the top k matching vector embeddings from
those PDF documents. Now the value of k could be 3 or the value of k could be 5 depending upon the number of documents
that you want to retrieve and use as grounding information in your rack pipeline. Now once you do that let's assume you
set the value of k to 3 you have now these relevant set of documents that's document number one, document number two and
document number three. So this contains the relevant information that your LLM could use to answer the user query. Now
we're done with the first step which was the retrieval pipeline now comes the second step which is augmenting a new
prompt that is generating a new prompt that we can finally send to a large language model. Now this is the second step
that I'm talking about the augmentation step. So in the augmentation step you generate a new user prompt that is a
combination of the original user query so that's part number one of the new prompt right the original user query the
original user question and then we also provide in the prompt itself the three documents that we derived the information
from in the retrieval pipeline. So now your prompt becomes the user query itself and then please answer the above
questions based on the following information that's information chunk one then information chunk two and then the
information chunk three. So the information from these three documents that were retrieved and that's the second step.
Now the last step is the generation step. Now in the generation step you take this augmented prompt newly created prompt
and make a call to the large language model. Now the large language model has both the user query as well as the
grounding information that it can use to answer the user query and then boom the large language model is able to answer
the user query. Now that's a rack architecture in action for you. Now as simple as it might sound there's a lot of steps
that we need to configure you know these three steps we need to bring these three steps together to life with a lot of
custom coding but the hardest part is configuring the retrieval pipeline which is setting up a database that can store
both the textual information from the pdf documents as well as simultaneously store the vector embeddings for the
textual information in those pdf documents and then the other most difficult part is to take the user query and then use
a similarity function that can surface the most efficient results most efficient set of documents that can be used to
answer the user query in a rack setup and that's where most of our work will go. Alright so I guess that's pretty much
it for the video that was all about taking a look at what is a retrieval augmented generation architecture and what are
the main important steps in a rack pipeline. That's it without further ado let's quickly move on to the next set of
videos.
