SECTION: 3 AI-200 Primers and Foundations
LECTURE_ID: 15
TITLE: Lab: Using a Vector Embedding Engine (Hands-On Lab)
TRANSCRIPT_LENGTH: 6525
---
Now with the help of this video we'll be taking a look at how you can call a vector embedding engine from Microsoft
Foundry and then generate some vector embeddings which is eventually going to help you in your rack pipeline setup. So
we'll take a look at how you can deploy a vector embedding engine and then eventually call it from a code first
approach. So the first thing is to deploy a vector embedding engine in Microsoft Foundry. So I'm going to go to my
Microsoft Foundry resource and then I'm going to go to the discover area which will eventually take me to the model
catalog. From model catalog I'm going to go to the models section and search for this vector embedding engine which is
called as text embedding ADA002. So that's the specific kind of vector embedding that we'll be using. So text embedding
ADA002. Yeah so that's the embedding model that I'm talking about which is text embedding ADA002. Now this embedding
engine is from OpenAI and it returns vectors which are 1536 in dimensions. So what that means is doesn't really matter
what the length of your input text is irrespective of the length it's going to return you vectors and that array of
vector will be 1536 in length and these vectors will be floating point numbers like 0, 0.1, 0.23 something like that. So
I'm going to go ahead click on this model and then we'll go ahead and deploy this model with some custom settings. I'm
going to go ahead and select the second option which is to deploy this model with custom settings. So the deployment
type will be set to global standard deployment name is text embedding ADA002 which is same as the model name and that's
completely okay with me and tokens per minute rate limit is set to 150,000 tokens which is absolutely more than enough.
I'm going to click on the deploy button and that should deploy this model for me and we'll be able to see this model in
the model deployment section. So as you can see I can see this model in the build section and then to the deployments
area. Yep the model is absolutely there. Now let's jump back to our VS Code environment. To perform this lab I'm on this
folder which is AI Foundations and this notebook vector embeddings.ipynb Now before we can move on with the notebook
execution we need to set in some environment variables. So we need to set in these three environment variables and as a
matter of fact for this lab we won't be using the Microsoft Foundry SDK but rather the OpenAI SDK to throw an API call
to our vector embedding engine. The reason we are doing this is because you get a feel of both worlds using the
Microsoft Foundry SDK which we did in one of the previous videos and now using the OpenAI SDK. So for this we need the
OpenAI API endpoint, the OpenAI API key and the embeddings model deployment name. I'm just going to simply type in the
embedding model deployment name which was text embedding ADA002. So we have one environment variable that's filled in.
Now we need the OpenAI API endpoint and the OpenAI API key. For this we need to go back to our Azure portal and now in
this Azure portal in the Microsoft Foundry resource we shall now go to keys and endpoint which is right under the
resource management tree. Let's go to the keys and endpoint section and from there we'll grab the endpoint and the API
key value. All right so now you can see I have a couple of API key values and endpoint values. To grab the OpenAI
endpoint value click on OpenAI over here and that's the OpenAI endpoint value. So I'm going to grab this OpenAI endpoint
value and paste it in the environment variable and the next thing is we need the API key. So you can either copy the
key1 or key2. I'm just going to go ahead and copy key1 and paste it again in my environment variable. All right and ctrl
plus s to save the changes. Now let's go ahead and execute this notebook. So I'm just going to go ahead and select my
Python kernel and that's done. So for this demo we'll be using the OpenAI SDK and not the Microsoft Foundry SDK. That's
where we are installing OpenAI. This is the library that we are going to go ahead and install. So just make sure that
you run this code block so that this library or SDK gets installed. I'm not going to do that because I already have it
in my Python kernel. Now with the next code block we'll be importing the environment variables namely the OpenAI API
endpoint, API key and the model deployment name. So I'm going to go ahead and execute this code block too. And the next
thing is to set up an Azure OpenAI client. So the way you set up an Azure OpenAI client is you create an object of type
Azure OpenAI which is from that OpenAI SDK and then you need to pass in the API key, the API version which is set to
2024.6.1 and then the OpenAI API endpoint. Both the API keys and the API endpoint are defined in the .env file. And
we'll be using this Azure OpenAI endpoint to create vector embeddings via our vector embedding engine and that's what we
are doing with the help of this code block. So you use the OpenAI client and then this method which is
.embeddings.create. This is the input text for which those vector embeddings will be generated with the input text being
the quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog. And then we're going to go ahead and use our vector embedding engine whose
name is stored in the model deployment name variable in the .env file. So we're absolutely going to reference that
variable. And then you just go ahead and simply print the response and we'll be able to see those vector embeddings
which will be 1536 in dimensions. And then hopefully the vector embeddings should get generated. Yep there you go. These
are the vector embeddings. So you can see these vector embeddings are floating point numbers between minus 1 and 1. So
you have values like minus 0.005, 0.004, minus 0.016 and then you'll observe that the length of this entire array of
vector embeddings is going to be 1536. And this length just depends on the kind of model that you're using. There's
other model like embedding large which is also from OpenAI and that returns 3072 dimensions of these vectors. But the
text embedding eta002 returns 1536 dimensions of these vectors. So that's the main difference. Alright so I guess that's
pretty much it. That was all about taking a look at how you can deploy in the first place a vector embedding generation
model in Microsoft Foundry and then go ahead and use that as an API call to generate these vector embeddings. That's it
and I'll see you in the next lecture.
