SECTION: 4 Containers and Azure Web Apps
LECTURE_ID: 16
TITLE: Understanding the World of Containers
TRANSCRIPT_LENGTH: 6498
---
Now, with the help of this video, let's try to understand what are containers. Let's have a pretty good understanding to
the world of containers because throughout this course, we'll be working a lot with the idea of containerizing an
application, the idea of running containers on a cloud platform like Azure. I think that's a pretty good slide to start
off into the world of containers and it really just lays down the problem statement that containerization is dealing
with as a solution in a really beautiful and understandable manner. So, they say you're not in a software project until
someone says it works on my machine and that's true to a pretty good extent. You develop an application and you seem to
know that the application is running quite well locally on your device. You tested it on a local host port and it's
working absolutely fine. It's working absolutely fine on your personal machine, on your personal laptop. And the moment
you give that repository to someone else that contains your application code, you give that folder to someone else that
contains your application code and the moment they try to get that application up and running, it's not a smooth
procedure. They encounter errors and errors could look something like some of the other system configuration is not
installed on their device. Some of the other language package is missing on their device and soon a matter of seconds
and minutes becomes a matter of days or a matter of hours. They might spend eight hours to have that application finally
up and running on their own personal machine. This is not good. This is not at all a position that you would like to be
in. And that's what the world of containerization is trying to solve. What if you could somehow take the environment of
your personal machine in which the application is working just fine and replicate that environment in the personal
machine of your colleagues so that they don't have to bang their heads against the wall trying to get up the application
up and running and just waste a couple of hours. And that's the world of containerization. That's where the world of
containerization begins. So the problem is virtual machine and virtual machines are hard to manage and replicate. It's
hard to manage and replicate the same environment that your device has onto a device that might belong to your
colleague. And that's how the concept of containerization and a platform that's called a stalker was born. So the first
question is what is software containerization? Well, software containerization is an OS virtualization method used to
deploy and run containers without using a virtual machine. And to put it very simply, it's about taking or it's about
trying to find a way to replicate that environment that your personal machine has where your application seemingly runs
fine and try to replicate that very same environment across a lot of these servers, across a lot of other devices. So
what is Docker? Well, Docker is a platform, is a containerization platform that lets you develop that package. So Docker
is a platform that lets you develop and run containers. Now container over here is that replicated environment, is that
single compressed package in which your application runs absolutely fine. And you can take that container, take that
lightweight package and deploy that to other servers or other personal machines of your colleague so that your
application also works fine on their servers or on their personal devices. So the way it works is to develop that
container, to develop that package, you have to build a Docker file and that Docker file includes how that application
runs, what sort of libraries and packages and what language does that application run on and what port on a local host
that does that application run on, right? So that's a Docker file. In Docker file, you list on all these specifications.
And once you execute that Docker file with a containerization platform like Docker, which is available as a software to
be installed on Mac OS or Windows, you eventually end up with something that's called as a Docker image. Now this Docker
image can be stored on your personal machine. You can distribute this Docker image to other people within your
organization and then these people within your organization can take this Docker image and run this Docker image as a
Docker container. Now this Docker container contains that replicated environment in which that application runs just
fine. So that's the whole idea of a Docker file, a Docker image, Docker container and the concept of containerization as
a whole. So container image is a portable package that contains software. It's this image that when run becomes our
container and the container is an images in memory instance. And a real thing to keep in mind is that a container image
is immutable. That is, if you have built a container image using a Docker file, you cannot change that. If you want to
change something, if let's say you missed a package to be listed down in the Docker file, that's important to run your
application. You will change your Docker file and recreate that Docker image. And that Docker image would be a new
version of that existing Docker image. So Docker images are immutable. The only way to change a Docker image is to
create a new image by altering the Docker file altogether. So just a quick recap, that was a lot to learn. And yeah, we
absolutely learned what are Docker files, what is a Docker image and what is a Docker container. In a Docker file, you
list on all the specifications, all the system built dependencies that should be there in the replicated environment to
run your application and could include things like what port is your application exposed on? What port does your
application listen on? And once you have this Docker file, you can execute the Docker file with a Docker runtime with a
container runtime to build a Docker image. And once you have a Docker image, you can publish this Docker image in a
cloud server, in a personal machine to run that application inside of a Docker container. And this Docker container
contains that replicated environment where your application runs perfectly fine. All right, so I guess that's pretty
much it for the video that was all about the world of containers, the idea of containerizing an application. And the
world of Docker as a platform. All right, so I guess that's it. Without further ado, let's quickly move on to the next
set of videos.
