SECTION: 4 Containers and Azure Web Apps
LECTURE_ID: 17
TITLE: Intro to Azure Container Registry (ACR)
TRANSCRIPT_LENGTH: 4058
---
Now with the help of this video, let's have a quick introduction to Azure Container Registry as yet another Azure
resource. So what is Azure Container Registry? Now when you develop a Docker image, you need a resource or you need a
platform wherein you can store that Docker image in a secure manner. And then you can use this platform or a resource to
distribute that Docker image to trusted individuals so that these trusted individuals can take these Docker images and
run these Docker images as containers on these servers, on these virtual machines, on these application platforms, and
also maybe use these Docker images for testing applications on their personal device. And that's the idea of having an
Azure Container Registry. Now as this name suggests, Azure Container Registry is an Azure resource that lets you store
these Docker images in a safe and secure environment. So it's a private managed Docker compatible registry service in
Azure. And then the way it works is you can first of all restrict the people that are accessing Docker images within
your Azure Container Registry by role-based access control. So people who only have the right sort of permissions can
take these images of these applications and run these applications or experiment with these applications on their
machines or servers. And the second advantage of having Azure Container Registry is that you can also restrict network
access to the images stored in Azure Container Registry because that's an Azure resource. You can put this Azure
resource into a virtual network. You can assign it with a private endpoint in that virtual network. And then the way
this works is only machines that sit within that virtual network, only resources that sit within this virtual network,
can establish a connection to this Azure Container Registry. So you make things even more secure. You make communication
with the images of these applications that sit in Azure Container Registry more secure. And ACR integrates directly with
Azure services such as Azure Kubernetes Service, Azure Container Apps, Azure Web App, and Azure Machine Learning. So now
you can take the Docker images from the Azure Container Registry and deploy them as application containers on these
Azure services like AKS, Azure Container Apps, Web App, and even the Machine Learning Workspace. Now this is how the
setup of an Azure Container Registry resource looks like in terms of these hierarchical namespaces. So at the topmost
level definition, you have the registry resource itself. And it has an associated endpoint that looks something like
this. So the endpoint has the registry name, then Azure CR, which stands for Azure Container Registry dot IO. So that's
the endpoint of your ACR resource. Now within this resource, you have a repository and likewise, you can have multiple
repositories. And the way that these repositories work is they provide you logical separation to store these container
images. Now you might use the same ACR resource to store images for different kinds of applications. For instance, you
might use this ACR resource to store different images and different versions of these images for two kinds of
applications, a front-end application and a back-end application. And then you might go ahead and also include different
versions of both of these back-end applications and front-end applications. So now you're left with version 1 and
version 2 of both of these back-end and front-end applications. Now the repository A would store the version 1 and
version 2 of the back-end application, and repository B would store version 1 and version 2 of the front-end
application. So these repositories provide a logical separation to help you store different versions of different
container images meant for different kinds of applications, like the back-end and the front-end applications in this
case. Alright, so I guess that's pretty much it for the video. That was all about a quick introduction to Azure
Container Registry. And yeah, that's it. I'll see you in the next lecture.
