SECTION: 4 Containers and Azure Web Apps
LECTURE_ID: 19
TITLE: Lab: Building and Running AI App Locally with Docker (Hands-On Lab)
TRANSCRIPT_LENGTH: 14076
---
All right, so with the help of this video, we'll be building an AI application locally and running that as a
containerized workload in our own device before we can push that to Azure Container Registry. And then in the next
couple of videos, we'll take that from Azure Container Registry and deploy that to an Azure web app instance that's
running on an Azure App Service plan and do a whole lot of other cool things. But for this video, we're just only
concerned with at least getting that AI application up and running, which is nothing but a chatbot that makes an API
call to a large language model that's deployed in Microsoft Foundry Resource of some sort. And then we'll test that
whole AI application out locally with the help of the Docker runtime. So in order to perform this lab, I'm on this
folder, which is Containers and Web Apps. And then this markdown file is the one that I'll be taking the help of. And
this includes the commands that we'll absolutely be taking the help of to carry out all the tasks and perform all the
tasks laid down as far as this video is concerned. So I'm on this markdown file. And currently, this markdown file in VS
Code environment doesn't look that visually appealing. A better way to view this is by running this shortcut with the
help of the keyword combination Control-Shift-V on your Windows device. I'm using a Windows device. I don't really know
what the shortcut is for macOS, but you can Google it out. So if you press this key combination Control-Shift-V, it
displays the markdown file in a much better manner. And this is the same format that you'll also see on GitHub
repositories that are published on the internet. Another way to view this in a much appealing format is to open it as a
preview. You click on this button in the VS Code environment, and that's going to open things in preview mode. And
that's the preview mode that I'm talking about. So the whole idea behind this lab is to have a model deployment of a
large language model. I already have one, which is the GPT 4.1 working in Microsoft Foundry. And we'll build a chatbot
application, which is a Python application of some sort, build that, run that locally with the help of Docker Desktop,
and finally push that to Azure Container Registry. From there, we can take it and publish that to an Azure web app
instance. Now I'll give you a quick walkthrough of what the Python application looks like. So the Python application is
within this folder, which is the AI app that is also contained in the same directory as the markdown file. And if you go
ahead and inspect this, that's basically a Python application. This Python application has a .env file, wherein we need
to set in the environment variables like the OpenAI endpoint, the API key, and the model deployment name, which is the
LLM that we want to use. So we'll set these values quickly. I'm going to go ahead to my Microsoft Foundry resource in
Azure portal, go to keys and endpoint area, click on OpenAI, and grab this endpoint from here. Right, so I'm going to go
ahead and paste this endpoint, and then we need the API key. You can copy either key one, key two, but I'm going to go
ahead with key one. And then you paste that over here. And next we need the Azure model name. So this model name is the
model deployment that you want to use, which is a GPD 4.1 model in my case. So I'm just going to type that in. I already
have this model deployment up and working in Microsoft Foundry. Now, if you go to the app.py file, this app.py file
contains the main code implementation. So with this, you'll observe that as the application begins, we import those
three variables from the .env file whenever this application would be running, namely the endpoint, API key, and the
model deployment name. Then we are using the OpenAI SDK to throw API calls to our model, right? So we're going to go
ahead and create this Azure OpenAI client with the API endpoint, the API key, and the model deployment name. And then we
expose two routes from this application. And this application is a Flask application. So the first route is the
SlashChat endpoint that accepts a POST request. And whenever it accepts a POST request, with that POST request, we have
to throw a user query that will be included in the message part of the JSON body that will be thrown as a POST request.
And then this grabs the user query from the message part and then uses the OpenAI client to throw an API call to our
model. So you can see the system prompt is set in as you are a helpful assistant. And then there you go, that's the user
message. Max tokens is 8192, temperature is set to 0.7. And then this is the model deployment name that we'll use. And
then this endpoint basically returns a JSON output, which contains the model that was used to come up with the answer,
and then the reply of the model itself, the assistant response. And then the second endpoint that we have for this
application is the SlashHealth endpoint, which is exposed via GET request. And the main motivation behind this endpoint
is to just make it act as a health check. So a health check is basically conducted to check whether a container
application is up and running and it's able to receive traffic or not. If this application is able to receive traffic,
when we throw a GET request to this SlashHealth endpoint, it's gonna return status healthy, so that's gonna be the JSON
output with a status code of 200. And this application runs on port 5,000. So it listens on port 5,000. And this is
important, because port 5,000 is the port wherein we'll throw all of our POST request and the GET request when it's
running locally on our desktop, and even when it's running on our cloud server. And then in order to containerize an
application, you need a Dockerfile. And this is the Dockerfile for this application. So the Dockerfile goes something
like this. We are using a base image for this application, and because that's a Python application, we need a base image
or a parent image of a Python application. So that's a Python image, which is Python 3.11 slim. That's the base image
that we'll be using. Now the working directory is set to slash app, which means all of these files, the .env file,
app.py file, and the requirements.txt file, and including the Dockerfile, all of these files, which are important to run
an application, will be included in the slash app working directory. So a folder will be made, which is the app folder,
and all these files will be onboarded to that app folder. Now this is important, because in order for you to run a
container application, you have to think how you would run an application, just like you would do manually. And that's
what you would do manually also, right? You would create an app folder and load all the files in that app folder and run
the startup command. And then if you see, the next line references something that's called as the requirements.txt file.
And the requirements.txt file includes all the packages and libraries that are important to run an application. So you
have packages and libraries like Flask, because that's a Flask application, that's a framework to expose a server. And
then we have the OpenAI library that includes all the packages and libraries too. So that's the requirements.txt file.
So in a Docker environment, in a containerized application, we would copy the requirements.txt file to this slash app
folder, and then run this Python command, which is pip install hyphen r requirements.txt. Now this command would install
in that Docker environment, all the packages and libraries that are important to run the application. And then after you
do that, you copy the entire application code. That is, copy all the files, the .env file, app.py file, Docker file, and
the requirements.txt file is already there in the slash app folder within the Docker environment. And then because this
application runs on port 5000, you expose port 5000, which is the port that this application listens on. And in order to
run this application, you would go ahead and run this startup command. And this startup command is a CMD command, which
means it's a command prompt command, which is python app.py. And this is absolutely something that you would also do
whenever you're trying to get that application up and running. So the whole point behind writing a Docker file is to
list on all the steps that you would also manually do, right? And that's something that I take a help of. That's an
analogy that I take a help of when I'm writing Docker files. It makes things very clear, very simple. So now that we
have a pretty good understanding of the entire application setup, let's move forward with the instruction set. So I'm
just gonna follow the instruction set. Now, in order to build this application locally, we need a container runtime. And
that container runtime is provided by the Docker desktop application. So I have this Docker desktop up and running as a
background process in my device. And you need to have that up and running every time that you are trying to create a
container image locally on your device. So just have that running in the background. So we'll use some Docker build
commands to build this application, all right? So I'm gonna open my terminal over here in my VS Code environment, and
that's gonna be a bash terminal, okay? Now, once you open up this bash terminal, or it could even be a PowerShell
terminal, doesn't really matter. The first step is to make sure that you are in the directory where the Dockerfile is
situated. So the Dockerfile is situated in this location over here. So I need to be in this location because this
location acts as the root folder for the Dockerfile. And now all of these Docker commands will be run in relation to
this root folder. So I'm gonna just navigate quickly to that location, which is by typing in the command cd, and it's
gonna be containers and, um, so cd containers and, yep, that's the location. And then it's gonna be the AI app folder.
Now that I'm in this location, I can run the Docker build command to build my Docker image. So let's go ahead and copy
this command, which is the Docker build command. And this Docker build command builds the container image from the
Dockerfile, right? So Docker build, and then a dot, which means that the Dockerfile is contained in the root folder that
I'm currently in. And the container image will be tagged with the name AOAI Python app. The AOAI stands here for Azure
OpenAI. So that's really just a short form. So you have a name of a container image, and that's what the name for a
container image is defined by this hyphen T symbol over here. The hyphen T stands for tagging an image with a name.
That's what it really means. All right, so it's gonna build that container image via all the instructions that were
written in the Dockerfile. That's what it'll just do. So now that we have our container image built, so the execution
was successful, we can simply go ahead and run this container image locally. So now this is the Docker run command. So
if you take a look at this Docker run command over here, this is simply a Docker run command which exposes the container
image and runs that as a container application and makes that listen on port number 5,000. And this port number 5,000 is
also defined in the Dockerfile. So each device, each laptop, each desktop has some ports. So the port 5,000 of our
device will be mapped to port 5,000 of the container image. So if you throw a request to port 5,000 So if you throw a
request to port 5,000 of our local host, then it's gonna be mapped to port 5,000 of this Python application and we'll
get back the output from the large language model after that API call has been successfully made. So Docker run hyphen
P, which is to configure a port mapping, which is 5,000 is to 5,000. And then we're gonna run this container image,
which was tagged with the name AOAI Python app. All right, let's go ahead. So now you'll see that this container image
is up and running and it's running on your local host port 5,000. So I'm just gonna keep this terminal up and running.
And in order to throw some request, I'm gonna open up a new bash terminal. So I'm gonna click over here and click on get
bash. That opens up a new bash terminal for me. I did not close the earlier bash terminal because closing it would mean
that I close my application also. And now we're gonna go ahead and execute this post command to the port 5,000 of our
local host, which makes an API call to a large language model. So this is gonna be a post request that's made to local
host 5,000 and then the slash chat endpoint, because that's the endpoint that runs our chat bot mechanism. And then the
content type is set to application slash JSON because we are throwing, as part of the API call, a JSON body. And then
the user query is included in this message key value pair. The user query is, can you please suggest some places to
travel in India? Let's go ahead and execute this. So we'll get back a response from a large language model and hopefully
that should be it. That should get executed successfully. Yep, it does. So you can see the model response was from the
model GPT 4.1. That's the version of the model. And then this is the assistant reply. Absolutely, India is a vast and
diverse country with something for every kind of traveler. Here are some wonderful travel destinations like it lists
down some historical and cultural destinations, the Red Fort, Qutub Minar, India Gate. And then, you know, talks a bit
about nature and adventure, talks a bit about some beautiful cities like Jaipur and then Agra Fort, Taj Mahal, stuff
like that. Awesome. All right, so I guess that's pretty much it. That was all about getting our Python application up
and running locally and then throwing a request to the application that runs on port 5000, which internally routes the
request as an API call to a large language model that's deployed in our Microsoft Foundry resource. That's it, and I'll
see you in the next lecture.
