SECTION: 4 Containers and Azure Web Apps
LECTURE_ID: 21
TITLE: Lab: Build and Run Images with ACR Tasks (Hands-On Lab)
TRANSCRIPT_LENGTH: 5245
---
Now, with the help of this video, we'll be discovering something and trying out a hands-on activity on a concept that's
called as ACR tasks. So, in order to perform this lab, I'm on this markdown file which is acrtasks.md that's included
within the containers and web apps folder in the GitHub repository. Now, before we can move forward, I'd like to give
you a brief idea about the kind of problem statement that this concept of ACR tasks is trying to solve. So, up until
now, we have built up our AI application which was a Python application locally using the Docker runtime. So, what we
did is we opened up Docker as a background process and then with the help of a couple of, you know, Docker commands with
the docker build command, the docker tag command, and the docker push command, we successfully built, first of all, our
application locally and then pushed it to Azure Container Registry. Now, the problem over here is what if on the device
that you're working on, you don't really have the Docker application running as a background process for some or the
other reason or maybe just for the sake of simplicity, you don't want that added layer of having to run those Docker
commands to build your application and push that to Azure Container Registry. What if there is a way that we can use the
container runtime that's provided by Azure Container Registry resource and then without having to run the Docker runtime
as a background process, we could just take the help of Azure Container Registry to, number one, build our image, test
our image, and then store that image to our ACR resource repository. And that's what ACR tasks really are. So, with the
help of ACR task, without using the Docker runtime at all, we'll be able to build that image and push it and save it on
our ACR resource. Let's get started. So, I'm going to open up the terminal and it's just going to be a single command
that will help us build that image and push that image to our Azure Container Registry resource. Now, just make sure
that within this terminal, you are in this root directory that just houses all of the application files. You know, just
make sure that within this terminal, you are in the AI app folder. So, I already am on the AI app folder and then I'm
just going to go ahead and run this command. All right. So, yep, there you go. Now, if you take a look at this command
over here, that's basically making use of the Azure CLI and then it's an ACR command. So, az acr build. So, we're going
to, first of all, build this image with our Azure Container Registry reference over here. Now, this is the variable that
references your Azure Container Registry name because we saved the ACR name in this variable in a couple of videos
earlier to this one. So, if you don't really have the ACR names saved to this variable, just make sure that you can type
in the name manually over here. And then the name of the image is going to be AOAI Python app and then the version of
this image will be tagged as acr-tasks and then a dot at the end, which is to signify that the folder or the directory
that we are currently in with the help of this terminal contains a Dockerfile. So, this dot over here is a way for me as
a developer to tell the container runtime that ACR provides that, hey listen, I am currently in this root folder and
this root folder contains a Dockerfile that you can take help of to build that container image and store that eventually
to your ACR repository. So, I'm going to go ahead and execute this code block and within like 15-20 seconds, we will
have our image built and also stored in our ACR resource. So, I'll just skip it to the part wherein we have our image
built and stored in our ACR resource. All right. So, there you go. You get back an output that looks like this and it
looks like it performed a bunch of tasks and then at the end, it says that this run was successful after 26 seconds.
Now, let's go to our ACR resource and I'll give this browser a refresh and then hopefully we'll be able to see within
the AOAI Python app repository a new version of that application. So, I'm just going to sign into my account again and
that should hopefully be it. So, if you see in the command, we have created the image with the same repository name but
a different version. So, from one of the earlier videos, we will have version 1 of the application stored but then
through this video, we'll have this version which is named as ACR tasks of that same application stored. So, I'm going
to open up the AOAI Python app repository in my ACR resource and you see that, well, I have this new version which is
ACR tasks and this is the new version that we created just now and because these are different versions, you'll see that
the digest values, the SHA-256 digest values for this version and this version are indeed different because they were
carried out through different processes. So, they also have a different digest value. Alright, so I guess that's pretty
much it. That was all about taking a look at a concept of ACR tasks and how that could eventually help you even remove
an extra dependency of having Docker Desktop or Docker Runtime installed on your device. That's it and I'll see you in
the next lecture.
