SECTION: 4 Containers and Azure Web Apps
LECTURE_ID: 22
TITLE: Lab: Lock and Unlock an Image (Hands-On Lab)
TRANSCRIPT_LENGTH: 3782
---
All right, so with the help of this video, we'll take a look at how you can lock and unlock a container image that's
stored in your ACI resource with the help of some CLI commands. So, in order to perform this lab, I'm on this markdown
file which is lockimages.md that's within the containers and webapps folder. So, let's first of all take a look at how
we can lock an image. So, the overall idea behind this lab is that we have an AOAI Python app container image that has
this version 1 up and working and at the present moment this version 1 of the container image by default is in unlock
mode. Now, consider the scenario that this container image is powering your production application and what if this
image because it's by default in unlock mode, somebody can mistakenly go to your ACI resource and then delete this
image. If this image gets deleted and if your application wants to restart, well, it's going to cause some problems
because the image then wouldn't just exist in your ACI resource. So, what do you do? In this case, you lock an image
that's currently running in production mode so that no one mistakenly can edit or delete your locked image and then once
you want to make changes to your image, you unlock it, make changes and then lock it accordingly because it's an image
that's powering your production application. So, let's take a look at how we can unlock, sorry, lock an image. Right
now, it's in unlock mode. We would like to lock that. So, I'm going to copy this azcli command over here and if you take
a look at this command, what this does is it makes use of the Azure CLI and then ACI meaning I want to interact with my
Azure Container Registry resource and then it makes an update to the repository. Now, the repository in our case is the
AOAI Python app repository that houses version 1 of our application. That's our ACI resource name, the image that we
want to lock. So, that's AOAI Python app version 1 and then to lock this image, you need to configure the right enabled
parameter and set it to false and that's going to lock your image. So, I'm going to go ahead and execute this. So, looks
like our image was locked and then if I go back to my Azure portal and give this a refresh and then if I try to delete
version 1 of this image, you'll see that it doesn't allow me to delete the image. So, I'm going to go ahead, click on,
well, the three dot symbols over here for the version 1 of the container image and click on the delete button and you'll
see that we encounter an error. Okay, I'm going to click on okay and now it's not going to allow me to delete the image.
Well, the error says could not delete the manifest and the code, the error code is registry disallowed operation because
the image is currently in lock mode. Now, let's take a look at how you can unlock an image. So, I'm going to copy this
code block over here, paste it in the terminal and if you see this code block, well, we are again making use of the
Azure CLI, interacting with our Azure container registry, performing a repository update operation, that's our ACR name,
that's the image which is AOAI Python app version 1 and now we'll configure the right enabled parameter and make it
change all the way from false to true. So, making it go all the way to true unlocks this image. So, now that this image
will get unlocked, you can edit this image, push updates to this image or even delete it but I'm not going to delete
this image because I'll require this image in the further labs that we do as part of this course. But this is how you
can unlock a locked image. Alright, so I guess that's pretty much it. That was all about taking a look at locking and
unlocking a container image in Azure Container Registry. That's it and I'll see you in the next lecture.
