SECTION: 4 Containers and Azure Web Apps
LECTURE_ID: 23
TITLE: Intro to Azure App Service and Web Apps
TRANSCRIPT_LENGTH: 4373
---
Now with the help of this video, let's quickly take a look at what is an Azure App Service Plan and what are Azure Web
Apps. So what is an App Service Plan? An Azure App Service Plan defines a set of compute resources for a web app to run.
So the first step in making your application live after creating a Docker image, storing that Docker image in your Azure
Container Registry, the first step in making that application live and accessible via a public URL, you first have to
define the plan, the compute resources that your application will run on. And that plan, that compute resource
subscription is called an Azure App Service Plan. So each App Service Plan defines the operating system and that
completely depends on the kind of Docker image, the kind of application that you're running. If your Docker image runs
on a Windows-supported device or a Linux-supported device, you can go ahead with both of these options in choosing the
operating system for your Azure App Service Plan. It also defines the region where your App Service Plan and compute
resources operate in, number of virtual machine instances. Now this is also important if you want to have scale-in or
scale-out operations that can help you with managing the spike in usage demand and the size of VM instances, whether you
want to go ahead with a small virtual machine, a medium compute resource, or a large compute resource. And then it also
has different kinds of pricing tiers, namely free, shared, basic, standard, premium, and then these three options for
the premium tier also. Now once you define an Azure App Service Plan, once you define the compute resources, the next
step is to deploy what's called an Azure Web App Instance. And this Azure Web App Instance is that instance, is that
publicly accessible URL that runs your application, which could be derived from a Docker image that's stored in your
Azure Container Registry. So an Azure Web App Instance represents a running copy of an application on an App Service
Worker, and then within an App Service Plan, depending upon the amount of compute resources that you have defined, you
can have multiple instances of multiple different web applications up and running. And these could be in different
regions, depending upon the region of your Azure App Service Plan. And then depending upon the number of VM instances
that you have defined in your Azure App Service Plan and the kind of pricing tier that you have selected, Azure App
Service also supports scaling out and scaling in operations to meet the spike in user demand. And then traffic is
automatically distributed across instances using Azure Load Balancing. Now, this part about traffic distribution is
abstracted away from you. You only need to worry about setting up or creating that Azure App Service Plan and creating
that Azure Web App Instance that runs your Docker image as a container and makes your application accessible via a
public URL. Now, this is how the combination of using images stored in Azure Container Registry and an Azure Web App
Instance can bring your application to life. So, the whole idea is that you store your Docker images within a
repository, within your Azure Container Registry resource. And then, for instance, if you're running a back-end
application, you would create a back-end application repository and store different kinds of version of Docker images
within that repository inside of your ACR resource. And now, you can go ahead and use this ACR resource to fetch the
Docker image and run that Docker image on an Azure Web App Instance. And the way this works is you create an Azure App
Service Plan and then you create a Web App Instance. Now, at the time of creation of this Web App Instance, you can
enable the managed identity of this Web App Instance and assign it with the image pull rule on this Azure Container
Registry resource. And now, this managed identity of the Web App Instance can successfully authenticate itself to this
ACR resource and pull the image and run that as a container and make your application live behind a publicly accessible
web URL. Now, this is absolutely something that we'll walk ourselves through once we get our hands dirty with the
hands-on labs and demos for this module of the course. That's it. That's all about Azure Web Apps and Azure App Service
Plan. I'll see you in the next lecture.
