SECTION: 4 Containers and Azure Web Apps
LECTURE_ID: 24
TITLE: Understanding Managed Identity Auth for Pulling ACR Images
TRANSCRIPT_LENGTH: 6500
---
Now, with the help of this video, let's try to understand the concept of managed identities and how can you make use of
managed identities in your day-to-day workloads. So, the problem statement that we have at hand and something that the
idea of managed identities is trying to solve is the fact that credentials management is a big, big problem. So, modern
applications rely on numerous secrets and these secrets could be in the form of API keys, connection strings, passwords,
certificates and access tokens and you use these secrets in your application. And the whole idea is or it's a saying
that you shouldn't store your API keys as hard-coded values in your application because they become a threat vector for
these attackers to compromise your application. If you store your secret in an application and for some of the other
reason you push that secret to a GitHub repository that's made public by mistake, an attacker could gain access to that
API key to that secret and could internally compromise your application or in other extreme events your organization as
a whole. So, the whole idea is that credentials and secrets to be very precise shouldn't be hard-coded in the code that
runs your application. And another big headache over here is something that's called as credential management. So, if
you hard-coded your API key in the code base that runs your application and at the moment that hard-coded value is
version 1 of the API key. What if you want to change the API key, make it go all the way from version 1 and version 2
and this is not easy, you would have to go ahead scan the entire code base and at every single line at every single
instance where that API key is being referenced, you would have to change and make it go all the way from version 1 and
version 2. And as applications grow, this kind of credential management becomes next to impossible to keep a track of
and that's in a nutshell what the concept of a managed identity is trying to solve. Number one, it's first of all to
improve the security hygiene of your overall application workload and number two, it's also to help you with this kind
of credential management problem that we talked about in the previous slide. So, if you take a look at this workflow
over here, let's consider this example. You have an Azure Web Application instance that's up and running and to perform
a business logic, it has to access an Azure Storage account. Now, there is one option of accessing this Azure Storage
account and that's by the virtue of using this API key. Now, this is not the route that you would want to go in an
enterprise setup for all the reasons that we discussed in the previous slide. The other option, the other way to go
about achieving the same outcome is by using the concept of a managed identity. So, you replace the API key reference
with a managed identity and now your Azure Web Application can, by the virtue of this managed identity, gain an access
to data that's stored in this Azure Storage account and the way this works is a managed identity has the right set of
permissions assigned to itself that lets it access the data that's stored in this Azure Storage account. Now, in this
case, that right set of permission level could be a role and that role could be a storage account data contributor role
and this role is directly tied with your identity provider like Microsoft Antara ID in this case. So, Microsoft Antara
ID handles the authorization and authentication part of this managed identity when it tries to gain an access to this
Azure Storage account. So, now your Azure Web Application, instead of using the API key, it now uses this managed
identity to gain an access to this protected data that's stored within the Azure Storage account. So, you're solving two
problems. You don't have to bear the burden of rotating your API keys going all the way from version one of the API key
to version two of the API key. So, that's problem solved and the second problem is you don't hard code the value of
these API keys anywhere in the code base that runs the application on this Azure Web App instance. You only have to make
sure that your Azure Web App instance refers to this managed identity when it's trying to access the data that's stored
in this Azure Storage account. So, there are two types of managed identities. One is a system assigned managed identity
and the second one is a user assigned managed identity. They differ in a lot of scenarios and the first thing is they
differ in their lifecycle management scenario. So, system assigned managed identity is tied to the Azure resource and
gets deleted with it, whereas a user assigned managed identity is independent of the Azure resource and has its own
lifecycle. So, there could only be one system assigned managed identity per Azure resource, whereas there could be
multiple different user assigned managed identities attached to multiple Azure resources. If you talk about use cases,
you would use a system assigned identity wherein only a single application requires an Azure resource access and on the
other hand you would use a user assigned identity wherein multiple applications require the same level of permissions
and you would want to have a centralized RBAC management because you could use that single identity and assign it to
multiple Azure applications or Azure resources. And this is absolutely something that we'll also take advantage of when
we want to deploy our container image on an Azure Web App instance. Now, because Azure Container Registry is a protected
resource, you would have to use an authentication mechanism in place so that you can authenticate your Azure Web App
instance and let it pull the container image and run that container image on itself so that it can make your application
accessible via a public URL. And the way we'll do this is at the time of creation of this Azure Web App instance, we'll
enable a system assigned managed identity and then we'll assign this system assigned managed identity the role of ACR
pull in the identity and access management tab of our Azure Container Registry resource. So, now your Azure Web App can
use this system assigned managed identity to authenticate itself to the Azure Container Registry, pull that application
image and run that image as a container and make your application go live. Alright, so I guess that's pretty much it.
That was all about the concept of managed identities and that's it. I'll see you in the next lecture.
