SECTION: 4 Containers and Azure Web Apps
LECTURE_ID: 25
TITLE: Lab: Deploying a Container to Azure Web App (Hands-On Lab)
TRANSCRIPT_LENGTH: 11857
---
Alright, so with the help of this video, we'll take this version one of our AOAI Python app that we have got as a
container image in our Azure Container Registry and deploy that to an Azure web app instance that runs on an Azure app
service plan. So for that I'm in Azure portal and then I'm going to go to the search bar and search for Azure web app.
Alright, so upon searching for Azure web app, you land on the app services option. This is the one that we're looking
for, so I'll go ahead and click on app services. And then we'll click on create. And I'll choose the first option, which
is to create a web app. So for now we because we don't have an app service plan up and working and we need an app
service plan before we can deploy an Azure web app with a publicly accessible web URL, we'll also be creating an app
service plan in the next forthcoming procedures. So I'll create this in the same resource group as my other resources,
which is AI200RG, and then I'm going to name this web app as AOAI Python app. And then I'm going to toggle this off. So
toggling this off gives me a neat URL, which is AOAIPythonapp.azurewebsites.net. Now it says the app name AOAI Python
app is not available. That's OK. I'll kind of put my name as a suffix, so that becomes AOAI Python app Guljot. And now
that's a clean URL. And for publishing purposes, we'd like to take a container image and publish that to an Azure web
app instance. So for the publish option, I'm going to go ahead and select container radio button and then operating
system. Now this operating system depends on your container image and our container image runs on a Python 3.11 slim
base parent image, and that base parent image is a Linux-based base parent image. So now our whole application image
becomes a Linux-based image. So I'll go ahead and select Linux as the option. For region, I'm going to go ahead and
create the web app and the app service plan in Sweden Central. And then as far as pricing plans are concerned, we'll
just go ahead with the basic pricing plan. So a basic or the standard one. We'll take a look at what's the cheapest
option. So as far as a Linux plan is considered, we'll have to create a new one. So this is the plan that will get
created. That's with a predefined name. You can even change this name, but I'm OK with this. And for pricing plan, we'll
go ahead and select the basic pricing tier. You can go ahead and select the free one also, but the free one has quite a
bit of latency associated with it. So for demo purposes and for keeping our demos fast track, I'll go ahead with the
basic version that's going to cost me $13.14 per month. You can even perform the demos on your end and deed the
resources straight away. So you're not going to be billed for anything. Alright, and then I'll go to the container
section and from this container section, we need to define the container image that this application will run. So for
that, our container image is stored in Azure Container Registry. I'll select the second option and then from here,
select your ACR resource, which is Kuljot ACR in my case. And for authentication purposes, I'll go ahead and select
managed identity. Now what this will do is as soon as my Azure web app instance gets created, a system assigned managed
identity with that web app instance will also get created. And now this system assigned managed identity for that web
app behind the scenes, which means I don't have to really worry about setting that up, will have the role of an image
pull role that allows it to go to the ACR instance, authenticate itself, and pull the container image and run that
container image onto itself. So the kind of role that this system assigned managed identity will have will be that of
ACR image pull role. That's the role that it will have. I don't really have to worry about the role. This will get
created behind the scenes. And then I'm going to go ahead and select a managed identity for my Azure web app instance.
So this identity will also get auto created. I'll just have to select that from the drop down. And then as far as the
image is concerned, our image was named as AOAI Python app. So that's the name of our image and the version of the image
that we would like to run is version 1. So the tag value will be set in as v1 and port. So the application, if you take
a look at the Docker file, is exposed on port 5000. So we'll have to configure port mapping over here and expose port
5000 in this case. Alright, I guess that's it. Let's go to the networking tab. And then as soon as you go to the
networking tab, you'll see that public access is enabled. If it's disabled, enable it by switching it to on. And then
we'll just go ahead with the default values in the monitor and secure tab as well as in the tags tab. So I'll just
switch over to the review plus create tab, wait for the final validation to get over, and I'll hit on the create button.
It's going to take like three or four minutes to have our Azure app service plan created, our web app instance created,
and to get our application up and running. So I'll skip the video to the part where I have all the resources created. So
it looks like our deployment got created successfully, and if you jump to your resource group, you'll see a bunch of
things got created behind the scenes. So you'll see that you have this Azure web app instance created, an Azure app
service plan created on top of which that web app instance runs, and then this is a user assigned managed identity that
gets created that has the image pull role on the ACR and that assists the Azure web app instance to pull the container
image, authenticate to the ACR resource, and run that as a web application. So a bit of correction from my side, this
was not a system assigned managed identity, but a user assigned managed identity that got created with the creation of
our Azure web app instance. Now let's go to our Azure web app instance. So I'm going to click on AOAI Python Apkul Jyoth
resource over here. That happens to be an Azure web app instance, and you'll see that this Azure web app instance has
this default domain over here. Now if you paste this default domain in your web browser and try to navigate to the slash
chat endpoint, you'll see that you get a method not allowed error because, well, the slash chat endpoint accepts a POST
request and just simply pasting that into a web browser throws a GET request. So that's probably just not going to work.
Alright, so we indeed get an error and the error is method not allowed. This method is not allowed for the requested
URL. For the first time that you try to access the website, it's going to take quite some time, maybe 10-20 seconds for
the website to get heated up because that's just the way Azure web app instance and Azure app service works. There's a
bit of latency because it needs some time for your application to get heated up. Alright, now let's go back to our Azure
web app instance, and before we can inspect some other things, let's just verify if it's working fine or not. So I'm
going to throw a request to my Azure web app instance. For that, I'm going to go to my markdown file which is
docker2acr.md and grab this request, the sample recall request from over here and then try that out from my bash
terminal. So the only thing that I need to change over here is the URL. So instead of localhost 5000, it needs to go to
my Azure web app instance. So if you take a look at the URL of my Azure web app instance, that's the URL where the
request needs to go to. So I'm going to copy this URL over here and then make sure that I do the required changes in my
bash terminal. Alright, so I'm going to replace that and I think that's it. Yeah, so that's the curl request, a post
request that goes to our Azure web app instance. Now keep in mind that we don't really have to expose or define the port
that we are trying to throw a request to because the port mapping internally gets taken care of. And at the time of
creation of this web app instance, we exposed the port 5000. And then the query is, can you please suggest some places
to travel in India? That's the query that we'll be throwing. So I'm just going to hit enter and take a look at if we get
back an output from this application or not. So we indeed do get back an output from the application. That's the output.
So you see that the response was from GPD 4.1 model. And that's the reply. Absolutely, India is a vast and diverse
country with something for every kind of traveler. If I try to hit with a bit different query, I would probably like to
have, you know, something else, which would be, can you please tell me something about Gen AI? And let's take a look at
the kind of response that we get back. Yeah, there you go. So certainly Gen AI is short for generative AI. It refers to
a field of artificial intelligence focused on algorithms and models that can generate new content, blah, blah, blah. So
our application is working absolutely fine. Now let's take a look at some more key details in Azure portal that can help
us with application administration. So now there's something that's called as the deployment center over here, which is
just under the deployment section. If you go to the deployment center, you'll be able to see what container image is
this application running. In this case, it's got to be AOAI Python app version one that's sourced from our Azure
container registry resource. It's taking quite some time to load. I'm going to refresh my browser and hopefully things
get in place. So we're currently on the deployment center and I'll just show you some key features of the deployment
center. Yep, there you go. So in the container section, you can see that there's a main container that's running in this
web application. And if you click on the hyperlink, that opens up even a more detailed wizard that tells you that the
image is sourced from Azure container registry. That's the name of the ACR instance. Authentication is via managed
identity. That's the identity used for authentication purposes. That's the image name, the image tag and the port that
the image listens on, which is 5000 in this case. Now you can even change the image for this application instance.
Simply what you have to do is you have to change the ACR instance if you're using a different one and then change the
image name and the image tag. Maybe you want to replace it with version one to version two. So you just simply have to
type in version two, click on the apply button and for the application instance to run this newer version, you have to
go to the overview area, click on restart and once you click on restart, it's going to take like a minute or so to get
the application restarted and the newer version, which is version two, will be running on your application instance.
It's as simple as that. Then there's also logs section. So from the log section, you can see all the container logs and
this is useful for debugging purposes. If there was a transient failure or error, you can debug those errors and
failures from this container logs section over here. And then if you go to authentic identity area, right, let's go to
the identity area, you'll be able to see that the application instance is using a user assigned identity and that's the
user assigned identity that is helping this application instance to authenticate to Azure Container Registry, pick up
that container image and run that container image as yet another application instance. Alright, so I guess that's pretty
much it. That was all I wanted to show you in terms of a detailed walkthrough on how you can, via the Azure portal,
deploy an Azure web application instance on an Azure App Service plan that sources a container image from Azure
Container Registry. That's it and I'll see you in the next lecture.
