SECTION: 4 Containers and Azure Web Apps
LECTURE_ID: 26
TITLE: Lab: Configuring a Container Health Check (Hands-On Lab)
TRANSCRIPT_LENGTH: 4369
---
Now, with the help of this video, we'll take a look at how you can configure a container health check in your Azure App
Service plan. So, if you remember correctly, we had a slash health endpoint on our application which just basically
returned a healthy status with a status code of 200 if the application was up and running and it meant that the
application is healthy and can now start receiving traffic. So, even if you go to your web application now that runs
that version 1 of the container image and in your browser with the application DNS server name, add a slash health
endpoint and throw a get request to it, you'll see that this returns status healthy. Now, this is not something that we
would like to manually do, right? This is something that we would like to keep a track of and integrate this
functionality in the Azure App Service plan, which means that the Azure App Service plan can or we would like to set up
a system in which the Azure App Service plan can continuously throw some get requests to this health endpoint and then
keep a track of or monitor the kind of status codes and the result which is status set to healthy, it gets back. If it
gets back a status code other than 200, like something like 400, 5000, which could signal that there's a problem with
the container instance that's up and running with the application, we could see that alert from the Azure App Service
portal itself. So let's quickly take a look at how do you configure a container health check in your application. So,
for that, I'm going to navigate back to my Azure App Service plan and then on the left hand side section of the screen
in the navigation bar, just make sure that you navigate to monitoring and then under monitoring, there's a section that
can help you set up these health checks. So, the section is called as health check itself. I'm currently talking about
this section. Let's go ahead and quickly configure a health check from this section. So currently, we don't really have
any health check up and running. So I'll click on this checkbox and then we need to provide it with the path that it
needs to ping to get back a health check status. So the path is simply the slash health endpoint on our web application
instance. So I'm going to type in slash health. And then we can also configure unhealthy instance removal, wherein we
can set the threshold in minutes until a failing instance is deemed unhealthy and removed from the load balancer. So
what this means is, in an enterprise setup, you might have various instances of these Azure web applications up and
working, and these instances could be 10 or 12, depending upon the kind of workload that you're running, right? The kind
of usage or the user demand that's configured for your Azure web application instances. And now, because these instances
are running the same container image, you would like to continuously pull the slash health endpoint. And if one of the
instances returns for a period of 10 minutes, depending upon what the threshold is set over here, for now, it's just 10
minutes. If it continuously returns status code other than 200, it will be deemed unhealthy and will be removed from the
load balancer, and then will be restarted. And then once it's healthy, it will be added back to the load balancer to
receive traffic. All right, so once that's done, I'll just quickly click on the save button, and that's going to start
or configure the health check for me. We're going to have to wait for some time, maybe for a couple of seconds, before
we can see the result of this health check in real time. So now, after a couple of minutes, like two or three minutes
after I configured the health check, you can go to the instances tab just beside the health check tab, and see that at
the moment, you have one application instance up and working, that's the server ID over here, and the status is
currently healthy. And that's also verified by the fact that you can go to your Azure web application instance DNS name,
add a slash health endpoint in your browser, and then just throw a get request by entering the URL in your browser, and
you get back status set to healthy and the status code 200. All right, so I guess that's pretty much it. That was all
about configuring health checks in your Azure application instances. That's it, and I'll see you in the next lecture.
