SECTION: 4 Containers and Azure Web Apps
LECTURE_ID: 28
TITLE: Intro to Azure Key Vault for Secret Storage
TRANSCRIPT_LENGTH: 3201
---
So let's quickly take a look at yet another Azure resource that's called as Azure Key Vault for storing your secrets and
your credentials like connection strings, API keys, so on and so forth. So Azure Key Vault is a cloud service used to
securely store and manage sensitive information and it's not only limited to storing secrets like connection strings and
API keys, although that's one of the main concerns, but it can also help you store encryption and decryption keys and
also certificates, SSL, TLS certificates and help you with certificate lifecycle management. And this is an Azure
resource, you can deploy it just like any other resource and you just simply have to store your API key within your
Azure Key Vault as a secret and then if you're running an application on an Azure Web App instance or anything like
Azure Kubernetes Service or Azure Container App, you can make a reference via your environment variable to the Azure Key
Vault secret that contains your API key and your Azure Web App via the virtue of a managed identity, if it has the right
set of permissions, it can fetch that API key from Azure Key Vault. And this is also better from a security hygiene
perspective because you're not at all hard coding the API key value within your application or within your code base
anywhere. And this is how the overall flow for an example case scenario would look like. So imagine you have your Azure
Web App instance up and running and this Azure Web App instance has a large language model that it makes use of that's
deployed in Microsoft Foundry resource and this Azure Web App contains Python code that basically makes that large
language model behave as a chatbot. Now in order to run that large language model, the Azure Web App code has to throw
API calls to the Microsoft Foundry resource to the large language model, right? So for that it requires model endpoint,
the deployment name and the API key. Now because model endpoint and the deployment name are not considered as secrets,
you can directly inject the values of the model endpoint and the deployment name as environment variables to the Azure
Web App so that it can make use of these environment variables directly at runtime. But because API key is a secret that
you would not like to hard code anywhere, be it in the environment variable configuration or in the code for the
application itself, you first of all store this API key in a secret store within the Azure Key Vault. And now you have
to find a way that this Azure Web App instance can access the API key from this Azure Key Vault. Now because Azure Key
Vault is a protected web resource, Azure Web App needs to have an authentication mechanism that can help it grab that
API key. And that authentication mechanism will be provided by a managed identity. So we'll provide the system assigned
managed identity of this Azure Web App instance, the role of being an Azure Key Vault secrets user, and then the Azure
Web App can use this managed identity to grab the API key that's stored in this Azure Key Vault secret store over here.
Alright, so I guess that's pretty much it. That was all about Azure Key Vault. And yeah, I'll see you in the next
lecture.
