SECTION: 4 Containers and Azure Web Apps
LECTURE_ID: 29
TITLE: Lab: Working with Azure Key Vault Secret Store (Hands-On Lab)
TRANSCRIPT_LENGTH: 12201
---
Now with the help of this video we'll take a look at how can you integrate Azure Key Vault with your Azure Web App
instance. So if you remember correctly in one of the previous videos we created a new image which is version 2 of our
Python application whose main idea was to use environment variables configured dynamically during runtime in the Azure
portal itself. And then we went to the environment variable section and configured three environment variables API key,
the endpoint and then the model deployment name. But the problem over here is that API key is a sensitive value and
storing API key just like a normal value in the environment variable section isn't a best practice. The best practice in
an enterprise setup would be to store the API key in Azure Key Vault as a secret and then in the environment variable
section over here make a reference to that Azure Key Vault so that the API key now could be referred from Azure Key
Vault in a secure manner and not really just sit in the environment variable like a normal value. So first things first
we're going to have to set up an Azure Key Vault resource. So I'll go to my Azure portal and search for Azure Key Vault
in the search bar. So this is the resource that we're looking to deploy key vaults and then I'm going to click on the
create button. We're going to create the key vault in the same resource group which is AI200RG and then we have to enter
the name. So let's keep it AI200KV which stands for AI200 Key Vault. It's not available. Okay maybe if I try to type in
my name as a suffix that should work. Yeah that works. So the name of a key vault is AI200KVKuljot and then region we're
going to go ahead with Sweden Central and yep that works and for pricing tier I'm just going to go ahead with the
standard one. Now there's soft delete which is enabled on my key vault resource and then the value of days to retain
deleted vaults is set to 19. Now what does even soft delete means? Soft delete means that when you delete a secret
that's showed in Azure Key Vault it doesn't get permanently deleted. It's retained for 90 days and after 90 days you
have the option to permanently delete it. So this is also really good capability because in some cases you might delete
the secret unknowingly and then you might require it the very next moment. So you can go ahead and retrieve it from its
soft deleted state the secret in Azure Key Vault. Alright and then let's now go to the second tab which is access
configuration. The permission model is going to be Azure Role-Based Access Control which will work in conjunction with
Microsoft Anthra ID. Let's go to networking tab and the public access for now is allowed which is good but the other
thing is you can also put this Azure Key Vault in a virtual network so that all the devices or all the resources that
sit only within the virtual network are able to access Azure Key Vault. Thus you can also add another layer of network
security in terms of key vault access but for now public access is good for the demo and then I'm going to go to the
review plus create tab wait for the final validation to get over because we are done with nearly all the things and then
I'm going to hit on the create button and then we'll have to wait for the resource to get deployed. So I'm going to skip
this video to the part wherein I have the resource up and running. So looks like our resource is pretty much up and
running. Let's go to our resource. So this is the resource panel and then under the objects area on the left hand side
you can see that there is the secrets area from where we can create new secrets. So if you go to the secrets area you
can create new secrets from here but for the first time it's going to prompt you by saying that the operation is not
allowed by RBAC. If role assignments were recently changed please wait several minutes for role assignments to become
effective. So that means our user identity is lacking some role assignments for it to create secrets in Azure Key Vault.
So solution to this is to go to the access control tab on the left hand side section of the screen which is the identity
and access management tab. Now from there we'll have to add a role assignment and the role assignment will be added on a
user account and the role will be the Key Vault's administrator role. So let's click on add role assignment and from
here we're going to search for the Key Vault administrator user role. So Key Vault. I'm going to search for Key Vault
and hopefully that should pop up. So the problem with this is the search bar over here is a bit buggy so you have to
manually look for the role but it's a variable on the ending pages and this is the role that I'm looking for which is
Key Vault administrator. Yeah this one Key Vault administrator. So assigning this Key Vault administrator to a user
account will let a user account perform all data plane operations on a Key Vault with one of them being creating a
secret. So I'm going to select this role click on next and then click on assign access to a user group or service
principle and then click on select members and from here select your user account that you're currently using to create
a secret. So that's going to be my user account click on select next and then review plus assign and that should fix
that error or that message that prompted that there was a lack of permissions on the user account. Now let's go back to
the secrets area and probably the message won't appear now. Yeah the message doesn't appear. So now I click on generate
slash import to create manually a new secret and the name of the secret would be openai hyphen api hyphen key. So that's
going to be the name of my secret and then I'll put the secret value over here which is my azure openai api key. All
right and we'll paste that over here and click on create. So that should create the secret in my azure Key Vault. Yep
you can see the secret has been successfully created. Now in order for me to use this reference in azure web app
instance in the environment variable section that ultimately points to azure Key Vault the managed identity that's
associated with this azure web app instance needs to have a Key Vault secret user role so that this azure web app
instance can go to the azure Key Vault and fetch the api key value from there and provide it to my application during
runtime. So for that we'll have to again go back to our Key Vault resource go to the access control tab and this time
the role that we'll be assigning is a Key Vault secrets user role to the managed identity and not the Key Vault's
administrator role. So now I'll click on add, add role assignment and the role that we're looking for is a Key Vault
secrets user role. So I'm just going to go back again to probably you know just going to search for Key Vault secret and
yeah that's the role that I'm talking about the Key Vault secrets user role this one and click on next and now this time
we not assign it to a user account but rather to a managed identity that's associated with our azure web app instance.
So I'll click on managed identity select members and just to keep in mind we'll take a look at the managed identity
that's associated with this web app instance. So you can go to the identity area in the settings panel and then from
here take a look at the user assigned managed identity which is this one UAID A52E that's the managed identity but this
over here is a user assigned managed identity. By default the behavior in azure web app instance is to somehow use the
system assigned managed identity and resolve the reference that's made to azure Key Vault. So we'll have to go to the
system assigned tab and then right now this azure web app instance doesn't have a system assigned managed identity
because the status is set to off. We'll set that to on and then click on the save button and click yes. So it's going to
create a system assigned managed identity behind the scenes for this azure web app instance. So that's the object id for
that system assigned managed identity that's attached to this azure web app instance. Now we'll select that system
assigned managed identity for our azure web app instance in the role assignment area in azure Key Vault and assign it
the Key Vault secrets user role. So I'll click on select members in the managed identity area and then select the system
assigned managed identity for my azure app service. So I'll click on select members for my azure app service instance.
So I'll click on all system assigned managed identities and then select this identity that has the same name as my web
app instance which is aoaipythonappkuljot. Let's go ahead and select that and then preview plus assign and wait for the
role assignments to be set into place. So we're pretty much done with most of the lab and the next thing is to somehow
find a way to make a reference to the azure Key Vault in the environment variable. So I'm going to go to the environment
variable and we'll have to find a way to make a reference to the azure Key Vault. So for this we're going to take help
of a code snippet from a markdown file. So this is the markdown file that contains the code snippet that will help us
resolve a reference to azure Key Vault. So this is the markdown file which is keyvault.md under the containers and web
apps folder in the GitHub repository and the code snippet is this one. The Key Vault reference needs to be of this
format. So I'm going to go ahead copy this Key Vault reference and then in the azure API key environment variable I'm
going to paste this reference. All right but the reference is still not completed. We need to provide it with a Key
Vault name and then the secret name. So I'm going to go ahead copy my Key Vault name which is ai200kvkuljot. So that's
going to be my Key Vault name and then we need the secret name. The secret name if I'm not mistaken was OpenAI API key.
But I'm still going to check it. Yeah that's OpenAI API key. And then just going to paste that over here. And once
that's done we are pretty much good to go. Let's click on apply. Apply and confirm to save the made changes. And now the
environment variable will have a reference to Azure Key Vault. And as you can see in this environment variable which is
Azure API key the source is set to Key Vault and that's with a green symbol. That means our application instance is
using Azure Key Vault to resolve the API key secret. Now we'll try to test if it's working fine or not. If our
application is working fine or not. For that I'm going to go to the overview section. Restart my application and then
we'll hit the application with the post request and see if we get back a response from the large language model or not.
If we get back a response from the LLM that means our Key Vault reference is working absolutely fine. So we'll have to
wait for like a minute or so before the application could be restarted with the new environment variable settings and
then we'll test our application out. So my application has successfully restarted which you can see on the screen. I'm
on the slash health endpoint and it's returning me status which is set to healthy. Now let's try hitting it with a post
request. So I'm going to copy this post command over here which is within the same markdown file keyvault.md and then
I'm going to open my terminal. Yep there you go. Just going to clear everything else. And then hit it with this command
which is can you suggest some places to travel in India or maybe let's try typing in you know a different query which
could be tell me something about yourself. Yep so indeed I do get back a response you know that's from gpd4.1. Hello you
know that's from gpd4.1. Hello I'm an AI language model created by OpenAI designed to assist you with answering
questions providing information. I'm always here to help you as best as I can just let me know. Awesome. So that means
our application is working absolutely fine and the reference to Azure Key Vault is also getting resolved just the way we
want. Alright so I guess that's it that's all about the integration between Azure Key Vault and Azure App Service and
I'll see you in the next lecture.
