SECTION: 4 Containers and Azure Web Apps
LECTURE_ID: 30
TITLE: Lab: Enabling Persistent Storage on Azure Web Apps (Hands-On Lab)
TRANSCRIPT_LENGTH: 10460
---
All right, so with the help of this video, we'll take a look at how you can enable persistent storage in your Azure App
Service plan. And by persistent storage, I mean that even if your application restarts, maybe you want to attach an
external storage solution such that even if your application restarts, you're still able to access that older files
which were associated with previous your application runs. How do you do that? So that's something which we'll exactly
take a look at with the help of this video. So in order to perform this lab, I'm going to take help of a Markdown file,
which is this one, persistent-storage.md that's included in the containers and webapps folder. So first things first,
this is a code snippet in the Markdown file that we'll have to copy and paste it in the app.py file in the Python
application. And then we'll create a new container image and then run that new container image with persistent storage
in our Azure App Service instance. So I'm going to copy this code block, this entire code block, and also show you what
has changed and the reason why we are copying this entire code block and pasting it in the Python file over here. So I'm
going to open up my Python application, go to the app.py file, and replace everything over here. All right. So if you
notice in this Python application, the only thing that changes is the fact that we are creating a directory over here,
which is the slash home slash chat history directory, which is going to act as a persistent storage path in Azure App
Service. And this directory in the Python application will store all the user conversations, all the conversation
histories that the users had with our Python application. So now the way this works is once we have created this
directory, which will be supported by Azure App Service persistent storage solution, whenever the user hits a post
request to the slash chat endpoint and throws a user query, the application will throw an API call to the large language
model with the user query, generate a response, and then in addition to displaying that response as a JSON output for
the API call, we'll also store these values in that file as a chat conversation history of some sort. So the values
would be the timestamp at which the API call was called, the user message, and the assistant reply. So for each run of
the application, we'll store these three values. We'll store these three values every time the user hits the slash chat
endpoint on our application. That's what we'll do. And then to this Python application, we have also added another
endpoint that operates on a get request, and the endpoint is the slash history endpoint, which means that whenever user
throws a get request to this slash history endpoint of the Python application, the user will be able to see everything
that's stored in that persistent storage or within the directory that stores the chat conversation histories. So now the
next step is to create a new Docker container image for this and push that to Azure Container Registry and run that on
our Azure App Service instance. So I'm going to go back to my markdown file, which is the persistent storage.md file,
and then with the help of these Docker commands, create a version 3 of our Python application. So I'm going to open up
the terminal, just going to clear the terminal a bit. So I'm going to enter the clear command, and yeah, just make sure
that you are in this AI app folder because that contains the Docker file, and also make sure that you have Docker
desktop running in the background. So for now, we'll first of all build this application with the help of the Docker
build command. Right, so that's a Docker build command that builds the application, and the application is AOAI Python
app version 3. So v3 stands for version 3 over here. All right, and once that's done, we'll log into our Azure Container
Registry. So we'll copy this command, and that's going to perform a login operation on our Azure Container Registry. And
once the login gets succeeded, we'll re-tag the container image with the naming convention that we need to follow for
all Azure Container Registry images, and push the re-tagged image finally to our Azure Container Registry. And from
there, we can go ahead and run that on our Azure App Service plan. So now that our login operation got succeeded, I'm
going to copy this command over here, which will re-tag my container image. And once the container image has been
re-tagged, let's push it to Azure Container Registry. All right, so now once that's done, we'll verify things on Azure
portal. So now let's go back to the container registry. So that's my container registry. I'll go to the repositories
section, and then open up my AOAI Python App Repository. And now you can see that I have version 3 of the application up
and working, which was recently pushed. Awesome. Now let's go back to our Azure App Service plan, and then let's go to
Deployment Center. And from the Deployment Center, we'll change the current version of the application instance, and
make it go all the way from version 2 to version 3. So let me open up the main container configuration, and then from
here, I'm going to change simply the image tag from version 2 to version 3, and click on the Apply button. So that's
going to save the container settings for me. Now before we can move on and restart our application instance, we have to
enable persistent storage on our application instance. And the way you enable persistent storage in your Azure
application instance is by going to the Environment Variable section and setting a new environment variable value. The
environment variable value over here is Website Enable App Service Storage, and we need to set it to true. This is a
system-defined environment variable value, and that's going to be the environment variable value. And that's going to
enable the persistent storage solution in our Azure web application instance. So I'm going to copy this environment
variable value over here, which is Website Enable App Service Storage. Let's go to our application instance resource, go
to the Environment Variables section, and then from here, we will create a new environment variable with the same name,
and then assign it a value of true. So now here, I'll click on Add, and then type in the environment variable name,
which is Website Enable App Service Storage, and then we'll assign it a value of true. So I've assigned it a value of
true. That's it. Let's click on the Apply button, and then Apply and Confirm to save the main changes. Now the only
thing left is to restart the application instance to run the new version of the application, which is version 3, and
also with the new environment variable that's going to enable persistent storage solution on our Azure web application
instance. So I'm going to go to the Overview section, click on Restart, Yes, and then we'll have to wait for a minute or
so before the new version of the application gets restarted. So I'll skip the video to the part wherein we have the
application instance up and running the new version. So now you can see that my application version 3 is pretty much up
and running because the health endpoint is returning the status of healthy. Now let's hit it with some queries so that
those queries could be stored as histories in the persistent storage of this Azure application instance. So I'm going to
go back to my VS Code environment, clear the terminal a bit, and then I'm going to run some queries. So the first query
is directed to my application instance. That's a POST request over here. You can copy the query snippet from the
Markdown file itself, and then the first query is, can you tell me something about yourself? That's the first query. So
that should also be stored in the persistent storage as conversation history. Yep, I do get back a response, and in the
response you can also see that it performed a saved file operation that persists this chat history to storage. Now I'm
going to run the second query, and that second query is, you know, can you please suggest some places to travel in
India? Let's run this query, and then this query should also be persisted to the persistent storage. Yep, I do get back
a response, and now let's go back to our browser, and then I'm going to query the slash history endpoint of my
application instance, and you will see that it has two files stored in that directory in the persistent storage. The
first JSON file is for the first query that I hit it with, and that's the second JSON file for the second query. So
point to keep in mind is that if you take a look at the app.py file over here in the application code, you'll see that I
very specifically created the directory where the chat conversation histories will be stored as slash home slash chat
history, and there's a very specific reason behind creating it as a slash in the slash home path, right? So everything
that's stored in the slash home path is persisted in your Azure application instance. Had I used anything else than the
slash home path, then everything that's stored in that directory would not be persisted in the Azure application
instance. So there's a very special reason behind why I used the slash home path over here. All right, now I'll go back
to my Azure portal and restart my application, and upon restarting the application, because we have persistent storage
enabled on our application instance, the JSON files should still be there, right? So I'm going to restart my
application, and then I'll have to wait for 30 seconds to one minute, and then we'll take a look at whether those two
JSON files are still there, which are associated with the previous application run. So you can see that the application
instance has again successfully restarted, and it's giving me status healthy in the slash health endpoint. Now is the
moment of truth. Let's try to query the slash history endpoint, and let's see if those two JSON files are still there.
Yep, those two JSON files are still there. That means that those JSON files were persisted and don't get deleted with
the restarting of the application instance with itself. All right, so I guess that's pretty much it. That was all about
taking a look at how you can persist data with the system-defined persistent storage that application service, the Azure
App Service, provides you with. That's it, and I'll see you in the next lecture.
