SECTION: 4 Containers and Azure Web Apps
LECTURE_ID: 31
TITLE: Lab: Working with the KUDU Console (Hands-On Lab)
TRANSCRIPT_LENGTH: 4178
---
All right, so with the help of this video, I want to show you guys a really cool feature of the Azure web application
platform and that's something that's called as the Kudu console app. Kudu, which is K-U-D-U, so, you know, you pronounce
it as Kudu, it's Kudu console app and it's used to view your application, you know, performance and also some files that
might be persisted by your application in a much better manner. So, if you remember correctly, we enabled persistent
storage on our Azure web application instance and even created two JSON files when we threw two post API requests to our
Azure web application and those two JSON files would have been persisted in the persistent storage that was provided by
Azure web application instance. So, we haven't been able to see those JSON files in detail yet now and we'll absolutely
do that with the help of the Kudu console app. So, it's pretty simple to navigate to the Kudu console app and it comes
attached with your Azure web application instance. So, I'm just going to go to my Azure web application, type in the
domain name server in the web browser and then to navigate to the Kudu console app, you just simply have to type in, you
know, your Azure web app name dot scm and then dot azurewebsites.net. That's what you need to do. So, now the URL
becomes your Azure web application instance name dot scm dot azurewebsites.net and that's going to take me to the Kudu
console app. Yep. So, that's the Kudu console app that I was talking about. It's a protected console. So, for the first
time, it's going to prompt you to sign into your account. Just make sure that you sign into your Azure account and then
it's going to open up that for you. So, this is the console and over in the console, you can see I have a dashboard kind
of view which states that the web application is running on the basic standard pricing tier. Then it's running on, you
know, OSS Linux and then I certainly have some environment variables. You can even view the logs via the log stream
option over here. So, if you open up the log stream option, you'll be able to see all the logs, whether it was a 200
status code, 404 status code and debug all these errors. And then if you go to the environment section, just under the
configuration panel, you'll be able to see all the environment variables filled in for this web application. So, you can
see that our web application performs on three environment variables. The first one is the Azure API key which is a
reference being made to the Azure Key Vault resource. So, that's the reference over here and then the website name is
AOAI Python App Kuljot and then this is the environment variable again which is the API endpoint which corresponds to my
Microsoft Foundry endpoint and then the Azure model name is set to GPD 4.1. Awesome. Now, let's go ahead and see those
two JSON files that are stored in the persistent storage solution. So, I'm going to open up this file manager over here
and then this file manager opens up at the slash home directory. So, the slash home directory is where your persistent
storage solution works. The slash home directory is where the persistent storage solution is mounted to your Azure web
application instance. And now, if you remember correctly, our JSON files was being stored in this chat underscore
history folder. I'm going to open up this folder and you'll see that you have two JSON files stored over here. If you
open one of these JSON files, you'll see the chat conversation history, the timestamp value, the user query which was
can you please suggest some places you travel in India and then the assistant reply over here. And then, if you open up
the second JSON file, you'll be able to see again the timestamp value, the user query this time being can you tell me
something about yourself and then the assistant reply. So, in a way, you can use the Kudu console app to even view the
files that are persisted by your Azure web application in an instance. Alright. So, I guess that's pretty much it. That
was all about a quick walkthrough of the Kudu console app and how you can use it in real time. And yeah, I'll see you in
the next lecture.
