SECTION: 4 Containers and Azure Web Apps
LECTURE_ID: 32
TITLE: Introduction to Deployment Slots
TRANSCRIPT_LENGTH: 4573
---
Now, with the help of this video, let's quickly take a look at what are deployment slots in Azure Web App instances. So,
deployment slots are live environments associated with an Azure Web App. Now, what does this even mean? So, if we deploy
an Azure Web App instance in an Azure App Service plan, you can have two kinds of environments working within that
instance. You can have a production environment and a staging environment. So, for instance, if you're developing an AI
application, the production environment would have model A and the staging environment would have a model B. Your QA,
your quality assurance and testing team, would interact with that staging environment so that they can make sure there
are no bugs, no feature updates to be made, and the model B is working absolutely fine in that AI application. And once
you get a green flag from that quality assurance team that's interacting with the application that runs in this staging
environment behind that Azure Web App instance, you can swap things. That is, you can make this staging environment, the
application that runs in the staging environment, now run in the production environment. And the application that's
running in the production environment would eventually be replaced for all live users. Now, this is important because
you would like to have zero downtime, right? This is very important because if you have a lot of downtime, your users
might get disgruntled and that doesn't mean a lot of good things for your business organization. So, slots allow teams
to validate changes before exposing them to end users. And a point to keep in mind is deployment slots are only
supported in the Azure App Service premium plans. And this is how you can make use of deployment slots with your CI-CD
strategy, with your repository branching strategy. So, for instance, for your application, you might host a repository
that contains the code base for running that application in GitHub. And similarly, that application has three branches,
main branch, the staging branch, and the development branch. Now, this development branch is where a lot of these
feature updates happen. This is the branch where your developers are working. The staging branch is the branch that
hosts the code base that the quality assurance team or the testing team is trying to run some test cases on. And now
this main branch contains the code that runs the application that the end users are seeing. So, this code base in the
main branch will be with the production slot. This code with the staging branch will be in the staging slot. And this
code with the dev branch will be in the dev slot. And now you will swap these slots. The dev slot will be swapped with
the staging slot and the staging slot would be swapped with the main slot or the production slot. And this would happen
with a near zero downtime scenario. And similarly, for running these applications, you would be storing your application
images in the Azure Container Registry. And then the Azure Web App instance can use this Azure Container Registry to run
the different kinds of images on these different slots, like the dev slot, the staging slot, or the main or the
production slot. Now, the kind of swapping mechanism that happens between the applications that run in these individual
slots in your Azure App Service plan are based on the concept of something that's called as rolling updates. So, a
rolling update is a deployment strategy that gradually replaces old application instances with new ones. And it doesn't
happen immediately. Now, what this means is, if this was the scenario before you initiated that swapping mechanism, then
the production slot was running the version one of your application, three instances of version one of your application.
And the moment you initiated the swap between the staging slot and the production slot, all these three version one
application instances aren't immediately replaced by application version two instances. It happens in a gradual process.
And this is because you want to achieve near zero downtime scenario. So now, in the transition phase, you have one
instance replaced by version two, and two instances still running version one. And then after some time, couple of
seconds, in the final state, you have three instances running the version two of the application. But this kind of
transition doesn't happen immediately. Alright, so I guess that's pretty much it for the video. That was all about the
concept of deployment slots. And yeah, that's it. I'll see you in the next lecture.
