SECTION: 4 Containers and Azure Web Apps
LECTURE_ID: 33
TITLE: Lab: Rolling Updates with Deployment Slots (Hands-On Lab)
TRANSCRIPT_LENGTH: 6512
---
Now with the help of this video, I want to shift your focus towards the concept of deployment types in Azure web
application instances. So imagine you know you have this Python application up and working which is at the moment
currently using a GPD 4.1 model as we can see by the value that's filled into the environment variable which is the
Azure model name. So this GPD 4.1 model is currently working in the production environment. Now you would like to switch
in a gradual manner in a rolling update kind of system and make the application go all the way from using a GPD 4.1
model to a GPD 5.2 chat model right. How do you do that? Well one answer could be that you simply you know fill in the
value of the environment variable over here with GPD 5.2 and then you instantaneously shift the model usage to GPD 5.2
instead of GPD 4.1 but that's not something that we want. We want to have this built up as a gradual process that is in
addition to this production environment maybe we would like to set up a staging environment wherein we currently have
that application up and working that's using GPD 5.2 and then we would like our QA team or testing team to test that
staging environment first and then once we get green flag from the QA team that everything's good to go we can then swap
the staging environment with the production environment so now that the production environment would be running a GPD
5.2 model. We want this kind of gradual shift and not really an instantaneous shift and that's where the concept of
deployment slots will kick in. So I'm going to go ahead to the deployment slots section that's under the deployment
area. So now we are currently using I think the basic or the standard pricing tier of our Azure App Service plan but the
thing is deployment slots are only supported in premium plans so we'll have to first of all upgrade to a premium plan to
add some slots. So I click on upgrade and then I'm going to upgrade to a premium plan. Now just keep in mind that
premium plans are costly and after you perform this lab just make sure that you downgrade on your app service plan
downgrade back to a standard or a basic plan. So now that you can see we are currently on the basic plan we'll have to
switch towards the premium plan so I'm just going to go ahead and select the cheapest premium plan option which is this
one which is premium v3 t0v3 this one that costs around 64.97 US dollars for the entire month. So that's a bit costly
but just make sure that you downgrade or even can just go ahead and delete the Azure App Service plan right. So I'm
going to go ahead and click on the select option and yeah we like to upgrade our pricing plan. So now it's going to take
quite some time maybe you know a minute or so for changes to set in. So I'm going to skip this video to the part wherein
I have all the changes set in. Alright so about 30 seconds to one minute the shift of the pricing plans got executed
successfully and now we are on to the premium version the premium pricing tier and now you can see that in the
deployment slots section it allows me to create some slots but as of now no slots have been added. So I can click on add
slot and then we like to add a staging slot that runs in addition to the production slot that's currently running our
gpd 4.1 model. So that opens up the slot creation visit for me and I have to type in the name. So we name this slot as
staging and the staging slot will create a new web application instance that will have this url which is
aoaipythonapp.guljot hyphen staging.azurewebsites.net. So we'll have a new instance of the Azure web application created
and that would be up and running and then we can clone all of these settings like the health checks that we configured
and even the environment variables that we created from the production version of the application that's up and running.
So I'm going to go ahead and select that I want to clone settings from the production version of the application that's
up and running and let's click on the add button over here. So now you can see that in the deployment slots section I
have two deployment slots one is the production version and the second one is the staging version and both of them are
currently running on the app service plan and now you can see that you can also set in the traffic allocation. Currently
100% of the traffic is going to the production version whereas 0% of the traffic is going to the staging version. Now
the traffic in this case is the traffic that's routed to this url which is just simply this one the main url over here.
So this is the url that does that traffic splitting but then you might wonder what if I want to send the traffic or test
at least how the staging application is up and working. Now we'll do exactly that so if you click on the staging
application instance over here you get a separate url for the staging application and throwing all the requests to this
url will route 100% of the traffic to the staging application. So the whole idea is that you can go in the staging
application to the environment variables and then really just change the azure model name over here make it go from gpd
4.1 to gpd 5.2 so that your application now uses a gpd 5.2 model and then you give this application url to your quality
assurance or your testing team and then they can test their application out and then once you get a green flag from that
team you go back to your deployment slots in the main application instance. The url where the production application is
running and then you quickly just increase the traffic in a gradual manner maybe like first of all forward 20% of the
traffic to the staging environment and then 80% to the production version and then 50 is to 50 and then 80% to the gpd
5.2 version of the application and then 20% to the gpd 4.1 version of the application, the one that's running the gpd
4.1 model and then finally you completely swap them together that is shift 100% of the traffic to the application that's
running a gpd 5.2 model and then 0% of the traffic to the application that's running gpd 4.1 model and then you
eventually remove the application instance that was running the gpd 4.1 completely from the app service plan. So that's
the whole idea in a nutshell with regards to deployment slots. Alright so I guess that's pretty much it that was all
about taking a look at deployment slots and some rolling update strategy with deployment slots. That's it and I'll see
in the next lecture.
