SECTION: 5 Deploy and Manage AI Apps on Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)
LECTURE_ID: 34
TITLE: Introduction to K8s and Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)
TRANSCRIPT_LENGTH: 8681
---
Now, with the help of this video, let's have a quick introduction to the world of Kubernetes. We'll try to understand
what sort of business problem is the world of Kubernetes trying to solve, how does it function, discuss some use cases,
and then we'll move on to understanding the world of Azure Kubernetes Service, which is Azure's managed version of
Kubernetes. So, in the modern world, in the modern application development world, we follow the microservices
application approach. Now, earlier back in those days, we used to follow the traditional application approach, and the
traditional application approach had a lot of bottlenecks, with these bottlenecks being because we just simply used to
build these applications on these virtual machines and servers directly, we did not really have any concept of
application containerization. It was very difficult to replicate the same environment across different virtual machines,
across different servers, and because you were limited to only the kind of hardware that you had an access to in, let's
say, the on-prem environment, you had a lot of difficulty scaling out and scaling in these applications. You had a lot
of difficulty exposing these applications to the outside world and managing the influx of users and the spikes that you
would experience in the usage and the user demand. But now we have moved towards the microservices application approach
in which we take advantage of concepts like containerization, so that solves the problem of replicating the environment
across different servers and machines where in your application is meant to function absolutely fine. And then because
we have things like cloud service providers like Azure, AWS, and GCP, we aren't limited by the hardware that we have an
access to. And because we aren't limited by these hardware configurations, scaling these applications is a lot easier.
And now you can handle the spike in user demand a lot more better. So if you talk about some developer pain points, here
are the three pain points and solution to these pain points. So the pain point of delivering same functionality and
replicating the same environment across multiple different scenarios and ensuring consistency and avoiding dependency
hell is solved by the idea of containerizing your application. Now, where does Kubernetes come into the picture? Now,
when you have these containers in a microservices application approach, you need to orchestrate the functioning of these
containers. You need to monitor which container will be able to talk with which microservice and how will the scaling of
these applications look like. If there's a certain spike in user demand, what number of instances should this
application scale to? So it's more about orchestration. It's more about monitoring. It's more about setting rules in
place. And that's what Kubernetes helps you with. Kubernetes helps you with setting these rules, setting these
guidelines in place, and eventually helping you monitor the working of these containers, monitor the orchestration that
sits within these containers. So Kubernetes, to put it very simply, is a container orchestration platform. It's an open
source project that was spearheaded by the Cloud Native Computing Foundation, CNCF for short. And here are some elements
of Kubernetes orchestration. So with Kubernetes, you can put in some rules and guidelines that can help you with
monitoring your applications. If there's failover, some application or some region fails, how do you have a fallback to
another instance of the same application? You can even set in rules for ensuring reliability and consistency within your
application environments. And then with Kubernetes, you can even set in some scaling rules. If this is the kind of user
demand that leads to a spike in CPU usage for a virtual machine, then what number of instances should that application
scale to? And another important capability of Kubernetes orchestration is networking. You have these various containers,
these containerized applications in a microservice environment running on these machines. How do you control the
networking between these applications? How do you determine that the front-end application is able to talk with the
back-end application in a secure environment? That is what Kubernetes is all about. Managing container orchestration.
It's a platform that helps you manage container orchestration. So Kubernetes is portable, it's extensible, and has
self-healing capabilities. When I talk about it being portable, it means you can take Kubernetes platform and make it
run on public, private, hybrid, and multi-cloud scenarios. It's extensible, which means Kubernetes, even though that's
an open-source platform, various cloud service providers have a managed instance of the Kubernetes platform. And for
instance, your container that's running in the Kubernetes environment, it can even make use or talk with an Azure
resource, like Azure Key Vault. So if your container requires an API key, it can talk with the Azure Key Vault, which is
an Azure native resource, and fetch the API key secret from there. So this is how the Kubernetes architecture really
looks like. The three main components of a Kubernetes, or the four main components of a Kubernetes architecture, is
number one, what you call as manifest files. Now these manifest files are used for setting in those rules and
guidelines, those scaling rules, those failover rules, in a YAML definition. You will write a lot of manifest files to
set in these rules of container orchestration. Then you have the control plane node. Now this control plane node is the
area or that hosts the API from where you can, with the help of manifest files, set in the rules that will apply to all
the containers in your Kubernetes cluster. So the control plane node exposes an API for you to talk with the Kubernetes
cluster by the virtue of these manifest files. And then in a Kubernetes cluster, you have different kind of nodes. Now
these nodes are nothing but compute engines. And within these nodes, you have pods. And pods run containers. Pods run
your application containers. So in a Kubernetes cluster, you have a single control plane node, multiple different nodes,
multiple different virtual machines, compute engines. And within a single node, you can have multiple pods. And within a
pod, you can even have multiple application containers up and running. Now we talked about Kubernetes being a platform
for container orchestration. And it's an open source platform that was spearheaded by the Cloud Native Computing
Foundation. But what does it mean to interact with the Azure Kubernetes service? What does it mean when you say you're
interacting with an Azure managed version of Kubernetes? So when I talk about Azure Kubernetes service, the rules and
definitions remain the same. But what really changes is that Azure, being a cloud service provider, it takes charge of
providing you with the virtual machines. It takes charge of providing you with the compute engine. And it takes charge
of managing the Kubernetes cluster for you. So you don't have to worry about the underlying infrastructure. And you just
have to focus on writing those manifest files, writing the business logic, the rules and guidelines that will govern how
your application containers behave in the Kubernetes cluster. So Azure takes care of critical operations like health
monitoring, maintenance, and you only pay for the AKS nodes that run your applications. And you don't have to worry
about the underlying infrastructure. You only have to worry about writing your YAML manifest files and writing the rules
and business logic for running the container orchestration workloads. So I think this is a really good slide that
highlights what is your work and what is Microsoft's work when you're working with Azure Kubernetes service. So when
you're working with Azure Kubernetes service, you only have to worry about application development, application
iteration and debugging, and containerization of those applications and writing those YAML manifest files that will hold
the business logic rules and guidelines. Whereas Microsoft or Azure completely takes care of cluster hosting, providing
you with the compute engines in the form of these virtual machine scale sets, cluster upgrade, making sure that the
cluster has latest security patches, and it also takes care of monitoring and logging your Kubernetes cluster
functioning. All right, so I guess that's pretty much it. That was all about an introduction to the world of Kubernetes
and Azure Kubernetes service. That's it, and I'll see you in the next lecture.
