SECTION: 5 Deploy and Manage AI Apps on Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)
LECTURE_ID: 35
TITLE: Understanding the K8s Architecture: The Fun Way!
TRANSCRIPT_LENGTH: 7026
---
Now, with the help of this video, we'll do a quick deep dive into understanding the Kubernetes architecture. So, this is
the architecture that we'll try to understand. We'll try to understand what does an HCD do, scheduler, controller
manager, cloud controller manager, kubelet, kubeproxy, and pods. And yeah, that's the architecture that we'll try to
unravel. Now, this is quite intimidating at first. It's really horrific. To be honest, if I try to explain things
without any analogy of some sort, without any relation to the real world, things will seem pretty dry and I'm pretty
sure a lot of people will lose interest. So, I'm going to do my best and try to make this simple with the help of taking
a real-life analogy and that's with taking the help of how does even a restaurant function. So, in a restaurant, you
have the restaurant manager and admin staff. So, that's part number one of a restaurant. You have the chefs and the
kitchen station. So, that's part two of a restaurant. And then you have the supplier warehouse. The restaurant needs all
those vegetables, fruits, and stuff for it to function properly. So, the supplier warehouse provides all of that stuff.
So, if you consider the restaurant management and admin staff, these are all the components that come under that analogy
of the management area. So, if you talk about the Kube API server, now this Kube API server acts as the reception desk,
meaning if you write your manifest files with those manifest files in form of a YAML definition containing the scaling
rules, the health check rules, the monitoring rules, and you try to make an API call to register the information that's
stored in those manifest files to this Kubernetes cluster, you are interacting with this Kube API server. So, this Kube
API server acts as that communication medium between the developer and the Kubernetes cluster to register the
information that's stored in the manifest files. Now, the next question is where is that information stored in the
Kubernetes cluster? The information is stored in this HCD over here. So, the HCD, which is ETCD over here, that's read
as HCD, that acts as the reservation logbook. All of the information stored in those manifest files that you register
via making an API call to the Kube API server, all that information, all of the scaling rules, the monitoring rules, are
stored in the form of key value pairs in the HCD. So, the HCD acts as a database to store all of those logics and rules.
Next, you have the scheduler. Now, in the manifest files, you will obviously write rules regarding what application
containers should run on your Kubernetes cluster. Now, the application containers run within a pod and that pod
eventually runs on a node and that node is nothing but a virtual machine or a compute engine that's provided by a cloud
service provider like Azure. So, the task of scheduler is to talk with the HCD, take a look at what application
containers need to run, and then it's going to take information from the HCD, communicate with the nodes in the
Kubernetes cluster that happen to be the virtual machine, and run those application containers on those nodes. And it's
also going to monitor the running of those application containers and will monitor whether the nodes and the application
containers that are running in the Kubernetes cluster happen to be in the desired state. So, if you want five
application containers running and only three are running currently in the Kubernetes cluster, that's not a desired
state. The scheduler will find this mismatch and will add two more application containers and now your Kubernetes
cluster is in the desired state. Next, we have the controller manager. The controller manager acts as the restaurant
manager. It ensures if everything is running correctly or not. It's going to ensure whether nodes are running properly,
whether these virtual machines are providing proper power to these nodes within the Kubernetes cluster or not. And it's
also going to monitor whether the Kubernetes cluster is in the desired state or not. And then you have the cloud
controller manager. Now, this cloud controller manager talks with your cloud service provider so that it can provision
things like virtual machines from the cloud service provider. In our case, the cloud service provider is Azure. But if
it had been AWS, if it had been GCP, the cloud controller manager would talk with that very specific API of the cloud
provider API. So, the HCD over here acts as the single source of truth and all of these components derive their
information from the HCD itself. Next is the chef and the kitchen stations part of a restaurant. So, if you consider the
kubelet over here, the kubelet acts as the station's chef. It gets orders from the scheduler and then it runs those
application containers on the pods over here. Very similar to getting order from the head waiter and cooking those
dishes. So, the kubelet continuously talks with the scheduler and makes sure that those desired number of application
containers are running in these pods in the Kubernetes cluster. Now, pods in this case are the dishes being cooked,
right? A pod is that environment where in your application containers run. Now, within a pod, you could have multiple
application containers running depending upon the configuration that was provided via the developer in the manifest
files. And then you have the kube proxy. The kube proxy acts as the kitchen coordinator. It handles communication inside
and outside the Kubernetes cluster, which means if this pod wants to interact with this pod on the same virtual machine,
kube proxy will handle that communication. And also, if this pod over here in virtual machine A in node A wants to talk
with this pod in node B, that communication will be handled out by the kube proxy. And then you have the supplier
warehouse. The supplier warehouse is the cloud provider API over here. Now, to run a Kubernetes cluster, you need these
virtual machine scale sets. You need the compute power that's going to power your application containers and node. Now,
that compute engine, that compute power of virtual machine scale sets are provided by the cloud provider API. Now, the
cloud provider API could be Azure, AWS, or GCP, depending upon the kind of managed version of Kubernetes that you're
running. So, even though the Kubernetes architecture from a very high level perspective looks pretty simple, if you
consider this from a very high level perspective, you only have to worry about the manifest files, the control plane
node, the kube API server, and then only the pods and the nodes or the virtual machine scale sets that are powering your
Kubernetes cluster. But in terms of a deep dive, this is what really happens in a Kubernetes architecture. All right.
So, I guess that's pretty much it for the video. That was all about a quick deep dive into understanding the
nitty-gritty details of the Kubernetes architecture. That's it. And I'll see you in the next lesson.
