SECTION: 5 Deploy and Manage AI Apps on Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)
LECTURE_ID: 36
TITLE: Lab: Creating an AKS Cluster in Azure (Hands-On Lab)
TRANSCRIPT_LENGTH: 13884
---
Now, with the help of this video, we'll take a look at how we can deploy an Azure Kubernetes service cluster, an AKS
cluster on Azure portal. So I'm on portal.azure.com and I'm going to go to the search bar and search for Azure
Kubernetes service. So Azure Kubernetes service, that's a pretty big name and maybe AKS, if I type in, that's going to
appear. Yeah. If I type in AKS or even type in Kubernetes services, this is the resource that we are looking to deploy.
So let's go ahead and deploy this resource. So that's going to take me to the Kubernetes center from where I can deploy
a Kubernetes cluster. I'm going to click on the create option and then just select the first option, which is deploy a
Kubernetes cluster. All right. So we have a lot of things to do over here and we'll approach this in a step-by-step
fashion. I'll place this cluster in the same resource group as my other resources, and that's going to be the AI200-RG
resource group. And then if you talk about the cluster preset configuration, you have different modes to operate the
cluster in, which is production standard, that's best for most applications serving production traffic. Then there's dev
or test environment, and then there's also production enterprise. But for now, for the sake of performing the demo,
we'll go ahead with the development slash testing environment. That's best for developing new workloads or testing
existing workloads. And then we'll have to name our Kubernetes cluster. So I named this Kubernetes cluster as AI200-AKS
cluster, if that's available and that should be available. Yep. And then for region, I'm going to go ahead with Sweden
Central. And then for the AKS pricing tier, you have three modes, the premium one, standard one, and the free one. We'll
operate for the free one, but the free pricing tier, the name itself is a bit misleading. What the free pricing tier
means is the fact that you won't be built for the control plane. You won't be built for the orchestration plane, which
is provided by Azure to maintain and control and apply all of the rules, all of the guidelines to your compute engines.
But you'll still be built for the compute engines and the virtual machines that you'll be using for the Azure Kubernetes
service cluster, for the AKS cluster to serve these applications. And then for Kubernetes version, we'll just go ahead
with the default version, which also has automatic security patching enabled. So you can also enable automatic security
upgrades over here, which will be enabled by default. And then for authentication authorization, we'll just go ahead
with local accounts with Kubernetes RBAC. And then let's quickly go to the next area, which is the node pools area, the
node pools tab. So now you can see that you have a node pools tab over here, and you can see that you have one system
assigned node pool added over here. Now this node pool is that virtual machine scale set that will be running our pods,
and these pods will be running our containers. So these node pools provide the compute engine to run these applications
as containerized workloads in our pods. And you can see that for this system assigned node pool, the node pool is
nothing but a virtual machine over here, and then it runs on the Ubuntu OS. And then this node pool has, well, a scaling
rule set in, which means at any given point in time, we will have at least two nodes up and working, and then it can
scale to a maximum of five nodes. And then the maximum number of pods that can run on a single node, depending upon its
CPU utilization is set to 110. And then within these pods, we will have a container applications working. So I'll just
go ahead with the default values in the node pools configuration panel. And now let's jump to networking. Now for this
networking, you can see that we have this container networking that's set to Azure CNI overlay. Now this Azure CNI
overlay is also system managed. And what this does is it basically creates an Azure virtual network. And then from that
Azure virtual network, it assigns IP addresses to these pods that are running our container applications. So we'll just
go ahead with the default values for all the networking configurations over here. And then you can also see that as far
as the network policy engine is concerned, it's set to none, which means it's going to allow all ingress and egress
traffic to the pods, which means it's going to allow all the incoming and outgoing traffic from the pods, which is what
we exactly want in our case. And then a load balancer is also enabled on a Kubernetes cluster, which will do the work of
assigning traffic to these pods and container applications based on the usage demand. Now let's go to the integrations
area. From the integrations area, we would like to integrate an Azure container registry that's going to host our
container images. So we already have an Azure container registry up and working, which we created in one of the earlier
labs. And we'll use that same Azure container registry and assign and integrate it with the AKS cluster. You can even
create a new one, but I'm going to go ahead with the already created one. So I'm going to select my container registry
from over here. And then let's go to the monitoring section. From the monitoring section, you can enable container logs
for which it will require Azure monitor. So I'm going to go ahead and enable container logs. And it's also going to
create a log analytics workspace, which will store all the container logs. And then you can query these container logs
in the log analytics workspace by using a Kusto query language query, a KQL query. And then we'll move on to the
security tab over here. For the security tab, you can see that you can even enable Microsoft Defender for Cloud that's
going to monitor all of your container applications for security vulnerabilities. And then there's also the capability
to enable Azure Key Vault integration with your AKS cluster so that you can reference all the secrets from Azure Key
Vault as environment variables in your container applications also. Then you can move on to the advanced tab. And from
here, you can manage some Kubernetes namespaces. Now namespaces are nothing but logical separations in Azure Kubernetes
service. And you can think of namespaces as logically separating your container applications in the form of some
applications will be for production workloads. Some will be in the staging environment and some will be in the testing
environment. So Kubernetes namespaces let you do exactly that. Now I'm going to go back to my basics tab over here and
just make sure that I changed the resource group and create a new resource group for the AKS cluster. The reason that
I'm doing this is because I don't want the AKS cluster to be up and running even after I get finished with the demos and
the labs because AKS clusters usually cost a lot. So I need to be a bit careful. So I can put all the AKS cluster
resources under a single resource group, which is going to be a new resource group. And then after I'm done with the
labs and demos, I'm just going to go ahead and delete the resource group entirely so that I don't have to incur a lot of
cost just for the fact that I forgot to turn off my resources. So I'm going to create a new resource group and let's
call this resource group as AKS-AI-200-RG if that's available. And yep, that should be it. Okay. And I think we are
pretty much good to go. Let's click on review plus create. So after hitting on the review plus create tab, it looks like
the final validation is over and then I can simply go ahead and click on the create button and that's going to create
all the resources required to run the AKS cluster on my Azure portal. And then it's going to take quite some time to get
done with things. So we'll have to wait for some moments. So grab a cup of coffee and then you'll be good to go with the
AKS cluster up and running. I'm going to skip this video to the part within I have the AKS cluster deployed and then we
can move forward from there. So it looks like our deployment is complete and we'll just take a quick look at the
resource group itself and take a look at what kind of resources got deployed. So I'm going to go ahead to the
AKS-AI-200-RG. So that's the resource group that was configured for the AKS cluster creation. And as you can see,
there's this AKS cluster that got created and then there are a couple of Metric Alert rules, Azure Monitor Workspace,
and then a data collection endpoint that collects these container logs and yeah, a couple of things over here. And then
let's take a look at if there are indeed some other resource groups that also got created with the creation of this
resource group. So I'm going to go ahead to the search bar and search for resource groups in this case. So I get a view
of all the resource groups in my subscription. Okay, so you're looking for other resource groups that are connected with
the AKS cluster. I'm just going to refresh things a bit over here. And that should probably pop up. Yep. So you can see
that I do have a couple of other resource groups up and working. So this is one of the resource groups. This one, this
one. So these two resource groups are somehow attached to this AKS cluster resource group, the AKS AI200-RG resource
group. Let's take a look at the first resource group. I'm going to open this up in a new tab. And similarly, we'll also
take a look at this one. It's just going to sign into my account. There you go. And we'll take a look at the kinds of
resources that got deployed. So that's the first resource group. So I can see I have a managed identity, a public IP
address, a load balancer over here, and then a virtual network. And this virtual network is used to assign virtual IP
addresses to the Kubernetes cluster nodes, the pods, and the container applications alike. And then I also have this
virtual machine scale set, which is over here. And this virtual machine scale set provides the nodes that provide
internally the compute power, the compute engine to run my AKS cluster. And then I also have a network security group.
That's good. Let's take a look at the second resource group. So the second resource group only has some data collection
rules that collect data from my AKS cluster and feed to the log analytics workspace. That's okay. Now, let's get going
with our AKS cluster. So I'm going to go to the AKS AI 200 RG, the main resource group that houses my AKS cluster. And
let's quickly open up the AI 200 AKS cluster in this case. Now I have a bunch of things working in this AKS cluster. So
if you open up the Kubernetes resources section over here, you'll see that you have namespaces, a section for
namespaces. Again, namespaces are nothing but logical separations to logically separate your containerized workloads
with things like you will have a bunch of containerized workloads working in the production environment, a bunch of them
working in the staging environment, a bunch of them working in the testing environment, something like that. So
namespaces only provide some logical separation for these container workloads. And you can see that there are some
system built and some default namespaces. So I have the default namespace, the kube system namespace. Now this is a
system built namespace where in some system defined pods are running. So when you create an AKS cluster, some system
defined pods and container workloads will be up and running that just manage the internal working of the AKS cluster. So
if you go to the workloads area over here, you'll see the kinds of pods and the kinds of container workloads that are up
and running currently. So even though we haven't run any application on this AKS cluster, it's surprising to see some
pods up and running. You know, I have pods like the core DNS pod, the connectivity agent pod, the matrix server pod, all
of that. So these are system defined pods that are set with the creation of the AKS cluster. So for instance, this core
DNS pod is a pod that takes the virtual IP addresses and assigns them to the AKS cluster. Now this matrix server pod
collects matrix from the entire AKS cluster. And then this core DNS autoscaler pod also applies autoscaling rules on our
AKS cluster. So these are some system defined pods. And as you can see, these system defined pods indeed consume some
CPU and also some memory from our nodes. So if you click on one of these pods, let's click on the core DNS pod over
here. And you can see that these pods are logically defined in a namespace. In this case, it's the kube system
namespace. So if I click on the core DNS pod over here, this will have a private IP address and it will be up and
working in my node, in my virtual machine that I created or that got created while I was creating the AKS cluster. You
can see that there are two replicas of the pod up and working. That's why you see two of two. And then you can see that
there's replica number one and replica number two of the pod. Replica are nothing but instances. And then they are
consuming a minimal amount of CPU, but a significant amount of memory from these nodes. And because I only have a single
node up and working currently in the AKS cluster, you can see that both of these pods are running in that node, in that
configured node for the AKS cluster. So that's the node. And this node is the same virtual machine that was created with
the creation of this AKS cluster in the creation wizard. And then I also have a private IP address for this pod. So you
can see these are private IP addresses that are assigned to these two replicas of the same pod. All right. So I guess
that's pretty much it. That was all about setting up an AKS cluster in Azure portal and taking a quick walkthrough of
the entire setup. That's it. And I'll see you in the next lecture.
