SECTION: 5 Deploy and Manage AI Apps on Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)
LECTURE_ID: 37
TITLE: Lab: Getting Comfortable with Kubectl Commands (Hands-On Lab)
TRANSCRIPT_LENGTH: 5729
---
Now, with the help of this video, we'll quickly take a look at how can you connect your AKS cluster that's deployed on
Azure portal and use the kube control commands to take a look at, you know, what pods are running, what nodes are
running, what namespaces are configured in your Azure Kubernetes service cluster via some terminal commands. So we'll
take a look at how can you connect using your Azure CLI credentials and use the kube control CLI commands to inspect
your AKS cluster. So in order to perform this lab, I'm on this markdown file, which is getting started with aks.md,
which is included in this folder, which is Azure Kubernetes service. So now we need to install the kube control CLI to
move forward with the lab. I already have the kube control CLI installed on my device, but this is how I did it. So open
up your PowerShell terminal and run this command, which is winget install, and then it installs the kube control CLI.
That's going to help you in, help you interact with the AKS cluster. Now winget over here is the windows installation
package manager, and that's going to install the kube control CLI for you. You can even take help of various other
resources on the internet to make sure that you install the kube control CLI on your device, depending upon the kind of
operating system that you're using. There are plenty of resources out there. And once you have installed your kube
control CLI on your device, and if you open up a bash terminal, for instance, in this VS code environment, and then type
in this command, which is kube control version, hyphen, hyphen client. That's going to display to you the kube control
CLI version that's installed on your device. So just make sure that you do that. Now the next thing is that we need to
connect to our AKS cluster, and we'll do that by fetching some credentials that are associated with that AKS clusters
admin account. So I'll go ahead and run this command. And if you take a look at this command over here, the command
makes use of the Azure CLI and then AKS, meaning I want to connect to the AKS cluster and get the credentials for the
admin account. And then the AKS cluster is situated in the resource group with this name and the name of the AKS cluster
needs to be typed in over here. So I'm just going to type in the name of my AKS cluster and the resource group name
also. So the name of my AKS cluster is AI200 AKS cluster. I'll paste that over here. And the name of my resource group
is going to be, let me just go ahead and delete that. So the name of my resource group will be AI200 AKS RG, all right.
And then I'll hit the enter button. Now it's going to grab the credentials for the admin account. And then we'll make
sure that it uses those admin credentials to connect to the AKS cluster as and when required. When I'm going to be
running those kubectl commands, you'll notice that we are using the same credentials that we fetched just now. So it
says that it's merged the AI200 AKS cluster in my device. Okay. Now let's go ahead and explore our Kubernetes
deployment. So for instance, I just want to get an idea about the virtual machine nodes that are up and running in my
Kubernetes cluster. So for that, I'm going to go ahead and enter this command, which is kubectl get nodes, right? So if
I enter this command kubectl get nodes, you'll see that I have these two nodes up and working in my Kubernetes cluster.
So I have this node number one, which is a part of the virtual machine scale set and node number two, which is also a
part of the virtual machine scale set that's powering my AKS cluster. The age of these nodes is about 22 minutes. So
these nodes were provisioned about 22 minutes ago. Now what if I want to take a look at all the pods that are currently
up and working in my Kubernetes cluster? I can simply type in this command, which is kubectl get pods. So now it says
that no resources found in default namespace. Now that's a bit concerning, right? We absolutely saw that we had some
pods up and running. So if you go to your AKS cluster and go to the workloads area. So in the workloads area, you'll
indeed see that there are some system defined pods that are up and running, but they belong to a different namespace. So
in the kubectl command that I ran, because I didn't really specify a namespace, it defaulted to the default namespace,
but there aren't any pods that are running in the default namespace. There are pods, but they are running in the kube
system namespace. So we need to define the namespace in the kubectl command. I'll go back to my VS Code environment and
enter this command, which is kubectl get pods and hyphen n, that is to justify the namespace that I want to get back
these pods from. And the namespace would be kube system. All right, so there you go. I get back these pods from the kube
system namespace, and you can see these pods exactly match the ones that we saw in Azure portal, right? And then in
order to get what namespaces are assigned to my AKS cluster, I can even type in this AKS command, which is, or kubectl
command, which is kubectl get namespace. So you see that currently in the AKS cluster, I have one, two, three, four,
four namespaces up and working, a default namespace, a kube node lease namespace, kube public, and a kube system
namespace. Majority of the pods currently, the system defined pods are running in the kube system namespace. All right,
so I guess that's pretty much it. That was all about taking a look at how can you connect to your AKS cluster via some
admin credentials by running the az cli command, and also use the kubectl command to administer your AKS cluster via the
terminal sessions. That's it, and I'll see you in the next lesson.
