SECTION: 5 Deploy and Manage AI Apps on Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)
LECTURE_ID: 38
TITLE: Lab: ACR Integration with AKS (Hands-On Lab)
TRANSCRIPT_LENGTH: 2391
---
Now, with the help of this video, I just want you to focus on the integration between Azure Container Registry and our
AKS cluster because that's going to play a very crucial role when we want to deploy container images onto our AKS
cluster with those container images stored in our Azure Container Registry. So, if you go to the resource visualizer tab
over here, that's on the left-hand side section of the screen, that's going to help you visualize the entire AKS cluster
and the underlying resources. You'll see that you have a system assigned managed identity that gets created over here,
and this managed identity is associated with the AKS cluster, and that's the name of the managed identity. Now, you'll
observe that this managed identity has the ACR pull role on the Azure Container Registry. So, we already had an Azure
Container Registry created as a resource in Azure portal, and while we were creating our AKS cluster in Azure portal, we
had a creation wizard, and in that creation wizard, we prompted that or we selected that we would like to integrate that
ACR resource to our AKS cluster. Now, behind the scenes, what really happened was a managed identity got created and
roles were automatically assigned to this managed identity, which is going to help the AKS cluster get those container
images from the ACR resource and deploy them as containerized applications on the AKS cluster. So, on the other tab, I
have this ACR resource open up, and if you go to the identity and access management, access control tab in this ACR
resource, which is Kuljoth ACR in my case, you'll see that if you go to the role assignments area, you have that managed
identity, the AI200 AKS cluster agent pool managed identity, having the ACR pool role on this Azure Container Registry
resource, and that really happened all behind the scenes. There was no manual intervention, and we didn't really have to
worry about setting it up in the first place, but that's definitely good to know that it's there, and it's definitely
better to understand what's happening behind the scenes, what's happening, and what's helping the AKS cluster retrieve
those container images and deploy them as container applications on the AKS cluster. All right, so I guess that's it.
That's all I wanted to share with the help of this video. Just a quick video on a quick note, and I'll see you in the
next lecture.
