SECTION: 5 Deploy and Manage AI Apps on Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)
LECTURE_ID: 39
TITLE: Lab: Building and Pushing our AI App to ACR (Hands-On Lab)
TRANSCRIPT_LENGTH: 9550
---
Alright, so with the help of this video, we'll be building the AI application locally, that we will, in the next couple
of videos, publish as a containerized workload to our Azure Kubernetes service cluster. So in this video, we'll just be
building that image locally, and also pushing that to Azure Container Registry. So I have Docker Desktop running in the
background, that's going to help me build this image locally. And in order to perform this lab, I'm going to take help
of some code snippets. And these code snippets are within the GitHub repository that's grown on my VS Code environment.
And that's the markdown file, which is docker2acr.nd. That's under the Azure Kubernetes service folder over here. So the
kind of application that we'll be building is a React JS application, which means it's going to have a really nice
looking UI. And then it will behave like a chatbot. You know, when you go to chat GPT, you interact with a chatbot on a
user interface, you throw some queries, and in the backend, a call is being made to a large language model. We'll
absolutely do that with the help of this application. So the application code is within this folder over here, which is
AOAI chat app. So if you open up this application folder over here, you can see I have a .env file that will be used for
sitting in the environment variables that are necessary for making the LLM API call. So I need the Microsoft Foundry API
key, the endpoint, the Azure OpenAI endpoint, and the model deployment name that I wish to use. So I'm first of all
going to fill these values. So we need the API key and the OpenAI endpoint. So I'm going to go to my Microsoft Foundry
resource, to the keys and endpoint area, and then grab key number one, which happens to be the primary key. And then I'm
going to paste that over here. And then next we need the Azure OpenAI endpoint and the model deployment name. Now in
this case, we need a special type of endpoint because that's a REST API call that we are making. So instead of making a
Python call, it's a REST API call. And the way I've written this JavaScript application, we cannot simply go to the keys
and endpoint area in our Microsoft Foundry resource, go to OpenAI and grab this endpoint. No, this endpoint won't work
because that's not the way I've written my JavaScript application. What instead we'll do is, we'll go to our Microsoft
Foundry portal, to the build section and then to the deployments area. And then let's say I'm going to use the GPD 4.1
model. So I'll click on this model and that's going to take me to the model playground area. Now just make sure that is
shift from chat to call model. And when you open call model, just make sure that for the code snippet, you select
instead of Python, a curl call, because that's a REST API call that we are even making in our JavaScript application.
And then I've basically replicated this call in my JavaScript application. So this is the endpoint that we'll copy, this
endpoint. So I'm going to quickly copy this endpoint and yep, paste that in the second environment variable. That's it.
And then we need the model deployment name. So I'm going to type in GPD 4.1 as my model and control process to save the
main changes. Now that we have the environment variables filled in, let's quickly take a look at the main code
implementation. So I'll open the SRC folder, the source code folder over here, and then navigate to the app.jsx file.
This is the React JavaScript file that basically runs that main logic and also renders everything in a really cool user
interface. So you can see I have this function app declaration over here, which is the main entry point for this
application. And what this basically does is it takes in the messages, which is nothing but the user query as an input.
And then in the main try catch mechanism over here in the try block, it tries to make a POST request to my Azure OpenAI
endpoint. That's going to be fetched from the environment variable file with the API key over here as part of an HTTP
request. And then the user query with maximum token set to 4096, temperature value set to one. And then I have the model
deployment name also defined over here, which is also taken from the .env file, the environment variable file. And then
it renders everything in a UI kind of system. We'll not go into the details of the code over here, but that was just to
tell you what's really happening behind the scenes. Next, let's take a look at the Docker file. So if we take a look at
the Docker file, we are building this image on a Node.js parent image. So that's Node 18 Alpine. So that's the parent
image that I'm going to be using. Then you create the working directory, which is slash app. And then in order to
install all the libraries, dependencies and utilities, you basically take the package.json file and run the npm install
command to install all the packages in the package.json file. The package.json file is just over here in the source code
itself. And then you copy the environment variables, copy the rest of the application files, all of the files needed to
run the application. And then you build the application by running this command, which is npm run build. And then you
finally expose this application and make it listen on port number 80. So we'll have to do a mapping on port number 80
for this application to listen whenever we deploy this as a containerized workload on our Azure Kubernetes service
cluster. That's it. So now let's go ahead and build this application. So I'm going to go back to my markdown file. And
then we like to build this application. So I'm going to open up my terminal over here. All right. And then just make
sure that you are in your terminal at this root folder location, this one. So we'll have to enter a bit of CD commands.
So CD Azure Kubernetes service, such that I navigate to that folder, and then I need to be in the AOAI chat app folder
because the AOAI chat app folder contains the Docker file. So this folder acts as the root folder for the Docker file.
And that's where you need to be to build your Docker image. Awesome. Now let's use this Docker command to build a Docker
image. So we're going to be building a Docker image and we'll tag that as AOAI chat app, and then the latest version
AOAI over here stands for Azure OpenAI. So that's just a short form. That's the kind of naming convention that I
followed. So it looks like our Docker image is now built. Let's test it out locally before we can push it to Azure
Container Registry. So I'm going to copy this command over here. And this command is a Docker run command that maps
localhost port 5000 to port 80 on which the container application listens on, and then it runs the latest version of the
application that we just built. So I'm going to hit enter and then open up a browser window. Let's go to localhost 5000
on a device. And yeah, that's the UI that I was talking about. A really sleek and minimal UI. And then if I enter a
query as in, hi, how are you? I should probably get back a response from the large language model. Yep, I do get back a
response. It says, hi, I'm just a virtual assistant. So I don't have feelings, but I'm here and ready to help you. How
can I assist you today? And then if I ask it something else, which is tell me something about Azure OpenAI. Let's take a
look at the kind of response that we get back. It's going to take some time because that would quite be, would be quite
a longer response. And yep, there you go. Absolutely. Here's a quick summary about Azure OpenAI. It's a cloud based
offering from Microsoft that allows businesses and developers to access powerful OpenAI language models like GPT-4,
Codex, DALI and more. And then talks about a couple of features of Azure OpenAI resource. Awesome. So that means that
application is working just fine. Now that we know our application is working fine, we'll push this application to our
Azure Container Registry. So we'll first of all set the variable name for our ACR instance, which is, you know, Kuljot
ACR in my case. So just type in the name of your Azure Container Registry. And that's only for setting in the bash
variable such that we can use this variable repeatedly in the scripts that will be running through our bash terminal. So
we just set up a bash variable with the export command, and then I'm going to quickly log into my Azure Container
Registry using the Azure CLI. So just going to copy this and paste that in the bash terminal also. Just going to scroll
this up a bit. So it looks like the login has succeeded. Now let's re-tag our Docker image with the naming convention
that we need to follow for Azure Container Registry. And then once that's done, we'll push our re-tagged image to Azure
Container Registry. And then we'll just check whether it's pushed to the ACR instance on Azure Portal. So yep, looks
like it's been pushed. Let's go back to our Azure Portal, search for container registries, go to Kuljot ACR instance in
this case. And then I'm going to head to the repositories section. And from the repository section, there should be a
new repository created. Yep. AOAI chat app. And then it should include the latest version of this application. Yep. I
have an image that's tagged as being latest. All right. So I guess that's pretty much it. That was all about pushing our
JavaScript application, our React JS application to Azure Container Registry. And in the next video, we'll deploy that
to our AKS cluster. That's it. And I'll see you in the next lecture.
