SECTION: 5 Deploy and Manage AI Apps on Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)
LECTURE_ID: 40
TITLE: Lab: Running AI App on AKS from ACR (Hands-On Lab)
TRANSCRIPT_LENGTH: 10572
---
All right so with the help of this video we now take the react.js application container image that's sitting there in
azure container registry that we built in the previous lecture and then create a deployment yaml manifest file to deploy
that to azure kubernetes service cluster. So we have to do a lot of things with this lab you learn about how do you
write a deployment manifest file how do you use that deployment manifest file configure some rules configure some
configurations and deploy that container application with those rules on an aks cluster. So it's going to be really fun
and exciting. So in order to perform this lab I'm on this markdown file which is acr2aks.md that's just under the azure
kubernetes service folder. Right so we'll primarily be interacting with our bash terminal so I'm going to open up my
bash terminal over here just going to clear some things so that it appears neat. All right so first things first just
make sure that you set up your azure container registry name as an export variable. I've already done that and my bash
terminal store has that value of the variable stored. Now we like to create a yaml manifest file and the yaml manifest
file will describe just how your container application will function as in what port is going to be exposed for that
container application which node will that container application run on as a pod within your aks cluster and some rules
that we like to configure maybe some scaling rules that we like to configure. So all of those guidelines and rules will
be written in form of yaml definitions in what's called as a manifest file. So we'll have to create a folder to store
that manifest file so that folder will get created somewhere over here in the same working directory. So I'm gonna make
sure that I am in the correct directory correct root folder and the root folder for my bash terminal needs to be this
one the azure kubernetes service root folder. So I'm just gonna make sure that I am in the correct root folder yep
that's it and then I'm gonna run this command which is mkdir which is which stands for make directory and then the name
of the directory is going to be the manifest directory. So now you see that a new directory got created over here the
manifest directory and up until now it's empty but we'll store the deployment manifest files in this manifest directory
over here. So now we're going to make use of this command over here to get back a templated manifest file for publishing
our reactjs application to aks cluster. So we'll get back that template and then we can configure that template
according to our needs. So the way this works is we'll use the kubectl cli to create a deployment. So whenever you want
to publish an application to an aks cluster you call that as a deployment and the deployment will be named as AOAI chart
app which is nothing but short form for azure openai chart app and it's going to run a container image which is stored
in our azure container registry and that's the location that's the full naming convention of a container image. It's
exposed on port number 80 and then you see this parameter which is dry run set to client. This really just means that I
won't don't want to create a deployment right now I just want to have the template manifest file that I can configure
according to my needs. So when you set dry run to client that means it's not going to create that deployment in real
time but we'll just throw the templated yaml manifest file as an output and once it throws that templated yaml manifest
file I will download the yaml manifest file to this manifest folder that I created earlier with this name. All right so
let's just go ahead and quickly copy this command and run that in the bash terminal itself. All right so you see that if
you open up the manifest folder over here you have a yaml file and let's quickly take a look at the yaml file now. So if
you take a look at the yaml file that's a pretty large description of how our deployment running that container image
should be deployed on our AKS cluster. So we'll go through this yaml manifest file in a step-by-step fashion. So if you
zoom on this a bit you can see that I'm contacting the kube api server so you know the api version is set to apps slash
v1 and the kind is set to deployment that means I want to use this yaml manifest file to deploy my container image as a
pod or within a pod on my AKS cluster. The name of this container workload will be named as AOAI chart app right so
that's going to be the name and then replicas is set to one which means at any given point in time the desired state of
the AKS cluster will have one replica that is one instance of my application up and running. I can set it to 2, 3, 4, 5
depending upon the kind of workload that I'm expecting and then now comes the specification over here. As far as the
specification is concerned you define the container that you want to run the container image. So the container image is
this one that's stored in my azure container registry and you can see the reference being made to that container image
over here and this container image is exposed on port number 80 so that listens for incoming traffic on port number 80
that's also very important to define in the yaml manifest file and that's according to the docker file that we created
for running this reactjs application. So I don't think we'll be making any changes to this yaml manifest file we won't
be adding any scaling rules or stuff like that I just wanted you to download the yaml manifest file so that I can show
you how exactly it is written and what are the important key points to keep in mind while writing this yaml manifest
file. Let's move forward with the rest of the lab so I'm going to go back to my markdown file and because we won't be
making changes and we are happy with the way the yaml manifest template is written we'll just go ahead and use that
manifest file to create a deployment finally. So I'm going to copy this command over here and this command will use the
kube control cli to apply that yaml manifest file as a deployment and run that container image finally on my aks
cluster. So whenever you want to apply a yaml manifest file to the kube api server and then run your container image you
use the kube control apply command and then hyphen f to define that it's a file that I want to send and the file
location also defined. Alright so I'm going to copy this command and paste that over here and hit enter. So in about a
couple of seconds we'll have this working as a container containerized workload on our aks cluster. So looks like it's
been created now the thing is I want to see whether it's up and running. So I can use the kube control get deployment
command to see whether this deployment is healthy whether it's up and running and see other details for this deployment
like what node is it running on and what is the age of this deployment. So I'm going to run this kube control command
which is the get deployment command to get all the replicas that have the name or the label AOAI chat app. I only have
currently one replica so we'll only see one container instance running for this for this application. So you can see
that I have one replica of the application up and working. It's currently working in the desired state so one of one
instances are up and because it's in the desired state the up to date value is set to one and then age is 45 seconds
right. So my aks cluster is currently operating in the desired state. Now let's go to azure portal to check things out.
Now if you go to workloads and because I didn't really define any namespace for creating this deployment this deployment
or this pod gets created in the default namespace in my aks cluster. So now you'll see that in the workload section you
have your container image up and working as a pod in the default namespace and you have one replica of it up and working
which was deployed about two minutes ago. Now if you would like to know more things about it like what's the ip address
what node is it running on you can see all of that too. So this is the pod name and then the status is set to running
and it's currently running on this node over here this virtual machine over here and then this has this internal ip
address which is the pod ip over here which is 10.244.1.14. Now this is a private ip address and not a public ip address
that's cool that's really cool. Now let's go back to our aks cluster and then to our vs code environment. Now the thing
is we would like to see this application working we would like to test this application out so there are two ways to
test this application out to access the user interface. One of the ways is to expose this behind a public ip address via
the means of a load balancer an azure load balancer. We would like to keep that for another video and we like to access
this application via the second way which is a much easier way for testing purposes and that's why something that's
called as port forwarding. So what happens is you can port forward the container application to your device so even
though your application won't be exposed behind a public ip address you can still access the application via the local
host port on your device. That's really awesome for testing purposes. So I'm going to go ahead and use the kube control
port forward command over here to quickly port forward the deployment with this name and then the port forwarding will
look something like this. So the local host 8080 port on my device will be mapped to port number 80 on the container
application and that's exactly the port that the container application listens for all traffic. So I'm going to go ahead
and execute this command and now that the port forwarding has taken place I can quickly go to my web browser again and
go to localhost 8080. All right so that's the application right and then if I type in a query how are you it shall
internally throw a call to a large language model and give me back the output. Yep thank you for asking I'm just a
virtual assistant how can I assist you today. Awesome so the application is working absolutely fine. I think we are
pretty much done for the lab. Yep that's it. All right so that's pretty much it for the video that was all about taking
a look at how can you create a deployment for a container image that's stored in your acr instance and deploy it to your
your acr instance and deploy that to your aks cluster with the help of some yaml manifest files. That's it and I'll see
in the next lecture.
