SECTION: 5 Deploy and Manage AI Apps on Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)
LECTURE_ID: 41
TITLE: Understand Networking in AKS
TRANSCRIPT_LENGTH: 8821
---
Alright, so with the help of this video, let's try to understand how networking happens in Azure Kubernetes Service, how
Azure manages networking for us in the Kubernetes cluster, so that we don't really have to worry about setting up some
virtual networks, some communication between these clusters, these nodes within the Kubernetes cluster. So, there are
four main areas of communication that you really should be concerned with in a Kubernetes cluster. The first one is a
container-to-container communication, which could be like a front-end containerized app talking to a back-end
containerized app. Next, we have pod-to-pod communication, then there's something that's called a pod-to-service
communication, and then external-to-service communication. We'll take a look at what does a service even mean, but this
is the four main areas of communication that you really just need to be concerned with as a Kubernetes developer. So,
this is a typical AKS networking setup. Now, in this typical AKS networking setup, you have node one and node two, which
are nothing but the virtual machine scale sets deployed in Azure, which form for the compute engine, the compute power
for your Kubernetes cluster. So, there are two nodes, and within these nodes, you have multiple pods up and working, and
within these pods, you will have these containerized apps that are running and are exposed to the outside world. Now,
the way this functions is the node one and node two, which happen to be virtual machine scale set, they sit within a
virtual network, and this virtual network is managed by Azure. So, you can see that this IP address of node one, which
is 192.168.1.4, sits within this virtual network over here that has this range, which is 192.168.0.0 till
192.168.256.256. Now, you don't need to worry about setting up the CIDR range for this virtual network that's taken care
of by Azure. Azure creates this CIDR range and assigns virtual IP addresses to the nodes within the AKS cluster. Now,
similarly, within these nodes, you will have pods, and these pods internally have their own virtual IP addresses. Now,
for each node, you can see that there's a pod virtual IP range that gets created, and from this virtual IP range, the
pods are assigned their own individual virtual IP addresses, which means that the communication between this pod and
this pod is protected and cannot really be seen by the outside world. And even the communication between node one and
node two is protected and cannot be seen by the outside world because both of these nodes, these virtual machine scale
sets, are a part of the virtual network, and an outside actor cannot really know what's happening to your virtual
network. Now, you might wonder how will an external request route to your containerized workloads. Now, the way this
works is to expose your applications to the outside world, you create a layer of Azure Load Balancer at the front, and
the Azure Load Balancer has a public-facing IP address. It has a publicly accessible IP address. So, now if a user wants
to access your containerized workload, the user just only has to make sure that he or she routes the request to the
publicly accessible IP address of the Azure Load Balancer, and the Azure Load Balancer will take care of internal load
balancing of the incoming request. Now, we talked a bit about, if you remember correctly, in the first slide, something
about services, right? So, we'll take a look at, in the next slide, the four kinds of services, and what are these four
kinds of services really used for, and in what kind of case scenarios. So, to begin with, services in Kubernetes and AKS
are important to expose multiple pods under a single IP address or a DNS name, which means, let's assume you have a
front-end application and a back-end application, and if you take the example of this setup over here, let's assume that
your back-end application works on pod 2 and pod 3, and your front-end application works on pod 1 over here. Now, the
thing over here is, rather than configuring that your front-end application that's working on pod 1 to make sure that it
only communicates to the back-end application that's working in pod 3 by typing in the virtual IP address, a better way
is to expose both of these pods, that is, pod 2 and pod 3, because they are running the same back-end application under
a single service, and now the front-end application just has to make sure that the front-end application routes the
request to that service, and that service will internally take care of load balancing whether the request goes to pod 2
or pod 3 that's running the back-end container app. So, that's the idea behind a service. So, the reason why services
exist is because pods are ephemeral, their IP addresses can change. So, if a back-end pod goes down because of some
failover and it gets back up and running, it's not going to have the same IP address, and if you configured your
front-end application to communicate with the back-end application by the virtue of an IP address, now the IP address
has changed and it's going to cause errors, but a service has a stable IP address. So, even if the pod goes down, your
front-end application is communicating with the service and the IP address of the service will not change in any case
scenario. Now, there are five main types of services. We have clustered IP, node port, load balancer, and external LIM
and headless service. We are only considering the four main types of services and the fifth one is not really important
and goes off the scope for this course. So, this is, I think, a really good visual that highlights the usage of
clustered IP, node port, load balancer, and external LIM as these four kinds of services. So, if you consider a
clustered IP, a clustered IP is used for inter-pod communication, which means internally within a single node, within a
single virtual machine, if you have a front-end port working over here and that front-end port wants to communicate with
these back-end ports and your back-end application is running on port one, port two, and port three, you will create a
clustered IP service over here such that the front-end port will communicate to these back-end ports via the virtue of
this IP via the virtue of this clustered IP service over here because the IP address of the clustered IP service won't
change and it's going to internally load balance the request coming from the front-end port. Next, we have the load
balancer. Now, the load balancer is simply used to route the request from the outside world. Now, in case of clustered
IP, the requests were only coming from a front-end port that sits within the Kubernetes cluster. Now, in case of an
Azure load balancer, for instance, the request will come from the outside world. So, the whole flow goes something like
this. For the Azure load balancer, you get a publicly accessible IP address. The user throws a request to this public IP
address. Then, the request internally gets routed to a clustered IP service and then it can go to either port one, port
two, or port three. So, that's the idea of a load balancer. Next, we have node port. So, instead of the user now
throwing a request to this public IP address, the user can now throw a request to a specific port on the node. It could
be either port 3,000. It could be either port 5,000. Now, the user throws a request to this exposed port. The request
gets routed to the clustered IP service and now it can go to port one, port two, or port three. So, that's a node port
service. Next, we have external name. Now, what if you don't really want your user to throw a request to a public IP
address because that doesn't really sound nice. You don't go in your web browser and type in a public IP address. You
could do that, but you don't usually do it. You go to your web browser and type in the DNS name like google.com,
microsoft.com. What if you want that? Now, that's the idea behind an external service. So, an external service maps to
an external DNS name, which could be like google.com, microsoft.com, and then the request routes to the clustered IP
service internally, and then it can go to port one, port two, and port three. So, you see in all of these case
scenarios, the clustered IP service is pretty important because this is what handles the internal communication within a
node, within a virtual machine scale set that sits in your Kubernetes cluster. You could go ahead and simply make your
choice based on your case scenarios with regards to external traffic in terms of you choosing load balancer, external
service, or a node port service. All right. So, I guess that's pretty much it. That was all about understanding
networking in great detail in Azure Kubernetes Service. That's it, and I'll see you in the next lecture.
