SECTION: 5 Deploy and Manage AI Apps on Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)
LECTURE_ID: 42
TITLE: Lab: Exposing AI App with Load Balancer Service (Hands-On Lab)
TRANSCRIPT_LENGTH: 6500
---
Alright, so with the help of this video, we'll take a look at how we can expose the ReactJS application that's currently
running in our AKS cluster behind a public IP address with an Azure load balancer service. So up until now, we only port
forwarded the port number 80 on the container application to a port on our local host machine, right? And then we were
able to test the application on. But that's not something that you would do in a production setup. In order to expose
the application to outside users, you need a public IP address that's accessible publicly over the Internet. And that's
exactly what we'll discover with the help of this video. So in order to perform this tab, I'm on this markdown file,
which is loadbalancer.md that's under the same folder as your Kubernetes service. Alright, so we'll be interacting with
our AKS cluster via the bash terminal. So I'm just going to open up the terminal over here, clear things out a bit. And
yeah, so it's pretty simple to create an Azure load balancer and have a public IP address assigned to it with the help
of the kubectl command. So if you take a look at the kubectl command over here, we run a kubectl command, which will try
to expose the ReactJS application that we have, that we have up and running. So that's the reference to the application.
That's the name of the application. And then you run a selector operation. Now this selector operation tries to select
all the applications or all the replicas or instances that have the label set to AOAI chat app. So in the manifest file
that we created, it included a label key value pair. And that label key value pair has the name AOAI chat app assigned
to our containerized workload. And then the name of this Azure load balancer will be this, right? So that's going to be
the name of our Azure load balancer. And the type is set to load balancer, which means it's going to quickly provision
an Azure load balancer resource behind the scenes with a public IP address assigned to it. And that's going to expose
our ReactJS application. At the moment, it's only one replica that's up and running in our AKS cluster. Had there been
three or four replicas, all those three and four replicas would be exposed behind an Azure load balancer. And Azure load
balancer would load balance all the traffic, all the incoming traffic coming to these replicas. All right. So I'm going
to go ahead and quickly execute this cube control command. So it says that a service has been created and it's exposing
your ReactJS application. Now let's try to gather the details for this load balancer. So we'll use another cube control
command, which is the cube control get service command. So whenever you create an Azure load balancer, it is a service
that gets created in your AKS cluster. So we need to refer to it as a service over here and then type in the name of
your Azure load balancer deployment. So now I'm going to run this command and that's going to show me the details, the
key details, like the public IP address for this Azure load balancer. So from here, you can see that my Azure load
balancer has a cluster IP address. Now this cluster IP address is the private IP address that it's been assigned in the
AKS cluster. That's not the public IP address. The public IP address is this one, the external IP address. Now I'm going
to paste this IP address on the web browser, so that I'll be able to access my application. Let's do that. So pasting
the public IP address on my browser window opens up our maps to this ReactJS application and that's the same ReactJS
application that's working in our AKS cluster. Now let's type in a query. Can you tell me something about yourself?
That's going to be my query and then I'm going to send it to the large language model and hopefully that should be
executed. Yep. Of course, I'm ChatGPT, an AI language model created by OpenAI. My purpose is to help answer your
questions, provide information, if you have anything you're curious about or need help with, just let me know. Awesome.
So the application is working just fine and now it's exposed behind the public IP address, so that our external users
can even access the application in real time. That's good. Now let's take a look at what really happened behind the
scenes in Azure Portal. Let's inspect it even further. So I'm going to go to my AKS cluster over here and then I'm going
to go to this section, which is services and ingresses under the Kubernetes resources section. Now in this services and
ingresses area, you'll be able to see the Azure load balancer that's created. All right. So this is the Azure load
balancer that I was talking about. Right. This is of type load balancer. It has a cluster IP and a public IP address
over here. Now I'm going to click on this load balancer to even take a look at some key details. So the load balancer
key details are over here. You have the external IP address, the cluster IP, the selector that this load balancer
applies to, which is it targets all the replicas of our ReactJS application with the defined label over here. Now I'm
going to go back to my Azure Portal and you'll see that in the same resource group as our AKS cluster, an Azure load
balancer resource got created. So I'm going to go to the resource group section, go to my resource group that houses my
AKS cluster, and then from there we'll be able to see an Azure load balancer. Right. So the Azure load balancer somehow
is not over here. So that's a bit strange, but maybe it got created in one of the other managed resource groups. So for
that, I'm just going to go to my Azure Portal and search for Azure load balancer. Right. So if I click on load balancers
in the search bar, you'll see that a load balancer is just over here. And yeah, I was right. It's not created in one of
the other managed resource groups and not the main resource group. So if you click on this load balancer, you'll see
other kinds of details. So if you go to settings and go to backend pools over here, you'll see that this load balancer
is currently exposing one application that's running on a node. And this is the node over here. That's the node of our
AKS cluster. All right. So I guess that's pretty much it. That was all about taking a look at how you can use an Azure
load balancer to expose your application or your containerized workload in AKS cluster behind an external IP address so
that you can expose it to the outside world. That's it. And I'll see in the next lecture.
