SECTION: 5 Deploy and Manage AI Apps on Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)
LECTURE_ID: 43
TITLE: Understanding ConfigMaps and Secrets
TRANSCRIPT_LENGTH: 3196
---
So, now with the help of this video, let's quickly take a look at config maps and secrets in Azure Kubernetes Service.
So, let's consider a scenario in order to understand the kind of problem statement that config maps and secrets are
trying to solve. So, imagine you're developing a chat GPT-like application with the front-end and a back-end. And the
back-end is a simple Python Flask or a fast JPI application that connects to the Azure OpenAI service to throw requests
to the GPT engine. And you have that large language model deployed in Microsoft Foundry project, right? Let's consider
that. So, when you deploy a large language model in a Microsoft Foundry project, you notice, you must observe that in
order to throw API calls to that LLM, you need to have three variables, three values. One is your Azure OpenAI endpoint,
one is your API key, and the third one is modern name. But the problem over here is, you are concerned how you're going
to make use of these three values. The first option is you can either hard code these three values within that Python
code. So, whenever your back-end application runs as a containerized workload, it eventually makes an API call to the
endpoint using the API key with a concerned modern name. But there's a bottleneck, there's an issue with that. What if
you wanted to change dynamically at runtime the model deployment name? What if your endpoint value changes? That's not
modular, right? This approach is not modular. For you to change the endpoint value or even the modern name, you again
have to create that container image because you are hard coding the endpoint API key and the modern name values. That's
not modular at all. So, this kind of solution that you're looking for is to somehow dynamically at runtime find a
solution to inject these values as environment variables and as secrets. So, if you wanted to change the endpoint, the
API key, or the modern name, you don't have to go all the way to your VS Code environment, open your Docker runtime in
your personal machine and rebuild the image for that back-end application. And this is exactly the kind of problem that
the concept of environment variables via the means of config maps and secrets is trying to solve. So, there are two
objects. One is a config map and the second one is a secret. And you can create both of these objects, define them while
you are creating your YAML manifest files. So, config map is an API object that's used to store non-confidential data in
key value pairs. So, this means that your endpoint value and the modern name value would go into a config map because
these are non-confidential values. Whereas, to store that API key, you would use a secret object. So, a secret is an
object that contains a small amount of sensitive data, such as a password, a token, or an API key, in the case scenario
that we have taken into consideration. Using a secret means that you don't need to include confidential data in your
application code. Alright, so I guess that's pretty much it. That was all about config maps and secrets in Azure
Kubernetes Service to bring about modularity and extensibility. And yeah, that's it. I'll see you in the next lecture.
