SECTION: 5 Deploy and Manage AI Apps on Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)
LECTURE_ID: 44
TITLE: Lab: Running AI App with ConfigMaps (Hands-On Lab)
TRANSCRIPT_LENGTH: 12152
---
Alright, so with the help of this video, we'll take a look at the concept of config maps in AKS clusters to store
environment variables and then dynamically inject those environment variables to your applications during runtime as a
best practice. So in order to perform this lab, I'm on this markdown file, which is config maps.md. And that's within
the same folder as your Kubernetes service. So let's talk a bit about the whole lab flow. So the lab flow would look
something like this, we will have a Python application that is a very basic implementation of making API calls to large
language models deployed in Microsoft Foundry. So you need three environment variables, the open AI endpoint, the API
key and the modern name. We'll create a container image, store that to Azure Container Registry for that Python
application. And then we'll also create a config map to store the environment variables like the endpoint, the API key
and the modern name. We'll create a config map using a YAML deployment manifest file in AKS cluster and use this config
map to power our container image of that Python application to inject those environment variables dynamically during
runtime so that we can see this application live in action. So I'll just give you a quick walkthrough of what the
application really is. So the application is within this folder AOAI Python app under the same Azure Kubernetes service
folder. So this contains an app.py file, which is an implementation of making API calls to large language model in
Microsoft Foundry. So it reads these environment variables, namely the endpoint, the API key and the modern name. And
then it creates an Azure OpenAI client. It exposes one route that is the slash chat route, which is a post endpoint,
wherein users can throw their request in a post HTTP request, and then it's going to extract the user query use the
Azure OpenAI client to throw an API call to a large language model and then return this kind of JSON response. The JSON
response would contain the model that was used for generating the response and then the assistant reply from the model.
And then this application runs on port 5000 and we have the Docker file containing the instructions for how the
container image should be built. So we have this application exposed on port 5000 and then there's also a
requirements.txt file, which lays down all the libraries and utilities required to run the container image successfully.
And this file will be used during the buildup of that container image by the Docker file. So I'm just going to jump back
to my Markdown file over here. And then first things first, because we'll be interacting with the bash terminal a lot,
we need to store the Azure OpenAI endpoint, the API key and the model name as variables for our bash terminal session.
So first I'm going to store the Azure OpenAI endpoint variable that contains the value of my OpenAI endpoint. So I'm
just going to grab the value of OpenAI endpoint. So on the Microsoft Foundry resource, go to keys and endpoint section,
click on OpenAI and grab the OpenAI endpoint from over here. So that finally sets up the Azure OpenAI endpoint variable.
Now we need to set up the API key variable. Similarly, in the same fashion, I'll fetch the primary key and store that as
a bash variable. There you go. And then we need the model deployment name. So the model deployment that I'm going to be
using is simply my GPD 4.1 model. So I'm just going to type in the name of my model deployment. Awesome. So now that we
have these environment variables set in as bash variables currently in our terminal session, we'll use the kubectl
command to create a config map on our AKS cluster. So we'll use the kubectl create command to create a config map
resource. And the name of this config map will be AOAI Python app hyphen configs. And this will include three variables
and their corresponding values, namely the Azure OpenAI endpoint, the Azure OpenAI API key, and the model deployment
name. And then these variables will be named as Azure API URL, API key, and model name. And these variables need to
match exactly what's defined in your app.py file. So if you go to your app.py file, these variables are defined like
Azure API URL, API key, and model name. So just make sure, or it's a point to keep in mind, that whenever you're trying
to create a config map, those variable naming conventions should absolutely follow what's defined in your application.
So I'm going to go ahead, copy this, and with the help of this kubectl create config map command, create the config map
in our AKS cluster. Now let's go to our AKS cluster. And from there, we can see the config map created. So to see the
config map, I'm going to go to Kubernetes resources and click on configuration. And then on the config maps area, I
shall see my config map created. So the config map gets created in the default namespace over here, because we didn't
really define any namespace during the creation of config map. So it defaults to the default namespace, and that's my
config map. I can even click on this config map and take a look at the environment variables defined in this config map,
right? So these are the environment variables, the Azure API key, API URL, and the Azure model name. Now let's take this
config map and deploy and use it to deploy our Python application. So I'm going to go back to my markdown file and we'll
have to create a container image of that Python application firstly. So just make sure that you are in the correct
directory, which is this AOAI Python app directory in the bash terminal. So I'm going to run a cd command that takes me
to this directory, which is AOAI Python app. And then I'm going to run this docker build command to create my container
image. So the container image will be named as this, and we'll have the latest version of that container image. So now
that our container image is created locally, we like to push it to Azure container registry. So I'm going to first of
all, log into my Azure container registry, just going to scroll this up a bit and then wait for the login session to get
succeeded. And once it get done, I can re-tag my container image with my Azure container registry naming convention and
push that finally to my Azure container registry. So login was successful, now let's re-tag our image with the correct
naming convention. Now once that's done, we'll push finally the image to Azure container registry. Alright, so now that
we have this image in Azure container registry, the next step is to create a YAML deployment manifest file and then with
the help of that manifest file, create finally our Python application workload and run that as a containerized
application in a pod in our AKS cluster. So we already have this manifest folder over here, that's going to house our
YAML manifest file. So if you don't really have this manifest folder created, first of all, create this manifest folder
with the help of this make directory command. And next, we download a template for that manifest file with the help of a
kubectl command. So we'll use the kubectl command to download or create that templated YAML manifest file that's going
to be named as AOAIPythonApp. That is for this image, that image is exposed on port 5000 and because we only want a
template of that manifest file, we don't want to create that deployment in AKS cluster. As of now, we'll set the
parameter dry run to client and then that YAML file will be downloaded to the manifest folder at this path. So I'm going
to go ahead and execute this code block also. So it threw an error and looks like I'm not in the correct directory. So
I'll just make sure that I'm in the correct directory and run the command again. So this time we have the YAML manifest
file downloaded, which is this one, AOAIPythonAppDeployment.yaml. Now if we take a look at this YAML manifest file, this
YAML manifest file is of type deployment because we want to create a container REST workload in a pod in our AKS
cluster. That's the name, that's the label, the replicas is set to one, which means we'd only have one instance of this
image up and working. And then this container application will run on this container image that's sourced from our Azure
container registry and it will be exposed on port 5000. The problem with that templated YAML manifest file is that it's
a template. It's only a template, we haven't made any changes and it doesn't include the integration of config map to
power our application. So now I'm going to jump back to the markdown file and copy this new YAML manifest definition and
paste that in the YAML manifest file. So if you take a look at this YAML manifest definition, the only thing that's
changed is that we have added an integration for the config map to be made usable by the Python application. So in the
specification where we define the container image that should be run as part of this deployment, we also define that,
hey listen, the environment variables should be sourced from this config map resource with this name that's deployed in
our AKS cluster. That's the only thing that we changed in this YAML manifest definition, rest everything else remains
the same. Now before we can apply this YAML manifest file, we need to change one thing. So we need to type in our Azure
container registry name over here or else it's going to throw me an error. So I'm just going to type in the name of my
ACR instance, which is Kuljot ACR and control persist to save the main changes. Now the only thing that's left is to
apply this YAML manifest file to our AKS cluster. So I'm going to use the kubectl apply command to apply the YAML
manifest file that's going to create my container applications. All right, so it looks like the deployment is created.
Now let's view the status of the deployment. So I'm going to use the kubectl get deployments command to get the
deployment status of the replicas for this container application. All right, so you can see that we ordered one replica
to be up and running and that replica is up and running and the AKS cluster currently is in the desired state. So if you
run the kubectl get pods command also, you'll be able to see that a new pod got created that's currently running one
replica of this application. Right, we can see that we have a newer pod that's created about 33 seconds ago and this pod
is running the instance of a container application, one replica of a container application. Now let's try and test this
application out in real time to see if the application is indeed using the environment variables defined in the config
map or not. So for that, I'm going to port 5000 from my container application to port 8000 on my local host machine so
that I can test this out in real time in a testing environment. So I'm going to use the kubectl port forward command to
do that. All right, so it looks like the port forwarding has successfully taken place. Now I'm going to open up a new
bash terminal. I won't close this because that's going to close the port forwarding scenario. I'll open up a new bash
terminal and then I'm going to copy this curl command. So if you take a look at this curl command, this throws a
request, a post request to the slash shared endpoint on local host 8000 with the user query being, hello, can you help
me with Azure OpenAI? That's the user query. All right, so I do indeed get back a message and that means the application
is working just fine and it's making use of the environment variables defined in the config map correctly. You can see
that we got back a response from the GPT 4.1 model. The reply is absolutely, I'd be happy to help you with Azure OpenAI.
What specific questions do you have, blah, blah, blah. Let me know what you need help with and I'll guide you step by
step. Awesome. All right, so I guess that's pretty much it. That was all about taking a look at how you can use config
maps to create environment variables in an AKS cluster that could be injected dynamically during runtime to power your
applications, your container applications. That's it, and I'll see you in the next lecture.
