SECTION: 5 Deploy and Manage AI Apps on Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)
LECTURE_ID: 45
TITLE: Introduction to the Sidecar and Init Container Patterns in K8s
TRANSCRIPT_LENGTH: 5376
---
Now with the help of this video, let's quickly take a look at some multi-container design patterns in a Kubernetes
cluster. So the whole idea behind this video is the fact that in a Kubernetes cluster, within nodes which are nothing
but your virtual machine scale sets, your compute engines, you can have multiple different pods. And within these
individual pods, you can have multiple containers, n number of containers running depending upon the resource
utilization of that pod. Now the idea is that if you can run multiple containers within that same pod, there could be
some design patterns that you can take advantage of. And that's exactly what we'll discover. So there are many two types
of multi-container design patterns. The first one is what you call as the init container design pattern. And the second
one is the sidecar container design pattern. Now let's first of all focus on what is the sidecar container design
pattern. So in a sidecar container design pattern, you have a main container and that main container carries out your
core business workflow. And then within that pod that runs that main container, you can have a sidecar container and
multiple different sidecar containers. So for instance, if you take this example, the idea behind a sidecar container is
to improve the functionality of the main container. For instance, you have this main container that runs a Python
application that makes a call to a large language model that's deployed in your Microsoft Foundry project or Microsoft
Foundry resource. So that's your core or main container. Now besides this main container, you have in this case two
sidecar containers. The first sidecar container is this one, the proxy container. Now the work of this proxy container
is to monitor the communication that this main container could be having with any other pod or any other container. So
if any other pod or any other container in the Kubernetes cluster wants to communicate with this main container, the
request will be routed to the sidecar proxy container. And the sidecar proxy container could do a lot of things like
rate limiting or enforce mutual TLS communication, authentication before the requests are routed to the main container,
so on and so forth. So the sidecar proxy container will act as an API gateway of some sort that's going to monitor the
incoming ingress and the outgoing egress traffic. Then the second sidecar container is this log scrapper container. So
for instance, your main container writes all the logs, all the errors that could be useful for debugging and for audit
purposes to this shared file system. And this shared file system could be a persistent volume. Now the idea behind this
sidecar log scraper container is that it's also going to have an access to this shared file system and then at every
midnight or after every two days or three days, it's going to perform a database migration of some sort, which means
it's going to take all the data that's stored in this shared file system and write all the data to a cloud service like
your log analytics system or your monitoring solution. So that you now have that data from the kubernetes cluster that's
stored onto a cloud system and then you can use this cloud system to well monitor how your application is working,
identify some bottlenecks and take a look at the logs of this application in general. And the name the sidecar container
design pattern also arises from the fact that you have well a motorcycle over here and then a sidecar is attached to
this motorcycle and the sidecar could be used to store additional items and the idea is that the sidecar improves the
functionality of the motorcycle. In this case, the functionality being in terms of storage of additional items. The next
kind of design pattern is what you call as the init container design pattern and the word in it is short form for the
word initialization. Now in this case, if you consider this scenario in which you have a main container and this main
container is that same container that talks with your large language model, makes some API call to that LLM that's
deployed in a microsoft foundry resource or project right and besides this container you can have two different
initialization containers. Now the way these initialization containers work is before your main container even starts
these initialization containers start do their work and get terminated. So for instance you can have this initialization
container one that writes some system configurations to this shared file system which will eventually be used by your
main container that talks with your large language model. Similarly on the other hand you can have an initialization
container too that performs some database migrations from a cloud resource and stores data in this shared file system
that this main container could take advantage of. Now after initialization container one does its work it gets
terminated it's no longer running and after initialization container two does it work it gets terminated and it's no
longer running. Now the only container that's running finally and eventually is your main container that talks with your
microsoft foundry large language model. Alright so i guess that's pretty much it that was all about multi-container
design patterns in kubernetes cluster that's it and i'll see you in the next lecture.
