SECTION: 5 Deploy and Manage AI Apps on Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)
LECTURE_ID: 46
TITLE: Understanding PVs (Persistent Volumes) and PVCs (Persistant Volume Claims)
TRANSCRIPT_LENGTH: 5987
---
All right, so with the help of this video, let's start to take a look at what are persistent volumes and persistent
volume claims in a Kubernetes cluster. And we'll see everything through the lens of Azure Kubernetes Service. So let's
try to consider this scenario in order to understand the kind of problem statement that persistent volumes and
persistent volume claims are trying to solve. So imagine you have a Kubernetes cluster and within this cluster you have
two nodes, so that's node A and node B. Within these nodes, there are two pods, that's pod A and pod B. And within each
of these individual pods, you have three container applications working. A front-end application, a back-end
application, and then this application is a containerized version of a database. Which means you aren't really using a
cloud-managed database service. So you need to now worry about how are you going to handle failovers and how your data
retention policy will look like. The problem over here is, if this database container fails, if this database container
restarts due to some or the other error, in the process of restarting, the data would not be saved because containers
and pods are ephemeral. Which means they are stateless and they are not stateful configurations. So if they restart, if
a failover happens, your data will be lost unless and until it's saved to a place that's called a persistent volume. And
that's what persistent volumes are trying to solve. So in order to save the data that your containerized database
application stores, you use an external storage solution. And that external storage solution is called a persistent
volume. So in this case, the persistent volume is an Azure file share. Which means if this container application or this
pod as a whole fails and tries to restart, it can then mount itself to this persistent volume, which is Azure file
share. And then it's also going to retain or restore all the data that it had before the restart phase began. And that's
the idea behind a persistent volume. Now you might wonder, what is a persistent volume claim? Now the thing is, this
container application and this container application have to request that they need a persistent volume to store the
data. That request is called a claim. And that's what a persistent volume claim really is. So persistent volume is a
piece of storage in the cluster that has been provisioned by an administrator or dynamically provisioned using storage
classes. Examples of these persistent volumes could be Azure file share, Azure storage account, and so on and so forth.
So if you're working in the Azure Kubernetes service, these persistent volume instances are nothing but different kinds
of Azure services that let you store data in a file-like configuration. Whereas, on the other hand, a persistent volume
claim is a request for storage by a user. This container is trying to request or is trying to make a claim that it wants
to store data in this persistent volume. That request, that claim, is called a persistent volume claim. So let's try to
understand the lifecycle of a volume and a claim. So there are two types of provisioning as far as persistent volumes
and claims are considered. The first one is static provisioning and the second one is dynamic provisioning. Let's try to
understand what happens in a static provisioning. So in static provisioning, in a Kubernetes cluster, there is an
administrator that administers the whole functioning of the Kubernetes cluster. And a part of his work is to make sure
that he pre-registers some persistent volumes. So he can talk to his developers, various different developers that are
working in the AKS cluster, and then he can make a decision that this is the number and this is the configuration that I
want to pre-register my persistent volumes with. And then the developer can go ahead, and because he has a pool of
persistent volumes that he can make use of, he can make claims on the fly. He can register persistent volume claims on
the fly for his containerized workloads. Now this is static provisioning because the administrator has pre-registered
some persistent volumes. But what happens if the developer wants to have a persistent volume claim on the persistent
volume that doesn't exist in the Kubernetes cluster? Now that's called dynamic provisioning. When none of the static
PVs, PV stands for persistent volumes, the administrator created matches a user's persistent volume claim, the cluster
may try to dynamically provision a volume specifically for that claim. But this feature of having dynamic provisioning
built into your Kubernetes or AKS cluster needs to be enabled by the administrator. That's not a default feature. And
this is how you define a persistent volume claim. You will do everything by the means of writing your YAML manifest
files. So you can see that in this YAML manifest file, the kind is set to persistent volume claim, which means this YAML
manifest file will try to provision a persistent volume claim for that containerized workload. The name of this
persistent volume claim is QuadrantPVC, could be anything. The access mode is set to read write many, which means if you
consider this instance over here, you have two pods that are trying to store data onto the same persistent volume. Now,
that's an example of a read write many scenario. That's not a read write one scenario. And then as far as the resources
go, this claim tries to claim one gigabyte of storage on, let's say, the Azure File Share persistent volume. And the
storage class name is set to Azure File Share, which means, well, this is a persistent volume claim for the Azure File
Share resource. So this manifest file is an example of exactly what's happening in this case scenario over here, in this
example over here. All right. So I guess that's pretty much it. That was all about the idea behind persistent volumes
and persistent volume claims. That's it. And I'll see you in the next lecture.
